
Pietro Sighel (ITA) won 1000m gold in Montreal on Sunday at the first event of the ISU Short Track World Tour this season  © ISU
Pietro Sighelhas been so good for so long, it is barely believable he has never won a gold medal at an ISU Short Track World Tour or World Cup event.
The Italian Gladiator has both World and European Championships gold medals in his collection, but during the regular season, second- and third-place finishes have been an unwanted speciality.
Sighel broke his duck on Sunday in Montreal. He won gold in a high-class 1000m final, to show that this season – which he's declared his most important ever, ending as it does with a home Olympic Games – he means business.
Rim Jongunof the Korean White Tigers has faced no such challenges. The prodigy added a second career gold — and a silver medal, too — to a Short Track World Tour career that is just a few days old.
Liu Shaoangmeanwhile, reminded the field he is still a force. He scored an individual bronze in the 1000m and brought home the Mixed Relay team for the Chinese Loongs’ first gold medal of the season.
Sighel first in feisty 1000m
After the shock of Saturday’s 1500m, when Rim blew away the field, it looked ominous in the 1000m as the Korean teen moved to the front early, using his flawless technique to build a decent gap ahead of the field.
Sighel and Liu came back strong, however, and the Italian executed a high speed pass on the bell to secure his maiden Short Track World Tour title. Rim was second and Liu third.
“This is my first gold medal (in a regular season), so I am really happy,”said Sighel.“The race was really good.”

Pietro Sighel (ITA) edged out Rim Jongun (KOR) and Liu Shaoang (CHN) to win his first gold medal at an ISU Short Track World Tour event  © ISU
“It is weird I hadn’t won one yet,”Sighel said.“Someone can win a World Championships, but he can’t win on the Tour or Cup? That’s why I worked more, and a lot, to try and be a better skater. This time I was the better skater, and I did it at the right moment. It’s also important for a qualifying spot (for the Games).”
He was also happy with the venue.
“My first big medal was here in Montreal, I won my first junior title here in 2019, so I have great memories from Montreal.”
Sighel has shown excellent consistency through the distances, which bodes well for a shot at the ISU Crystal Globe, as well as the Olympics.
“It’s true. Last year, 500m was difficult sometimes, 1000m and 1500m was better, but at this moment I can’t choose. I feel good in every one, and this weekend I really felt good in the 500m. It’s important for the Globe, and also for my confidence.”
Rim was satisfied to get silver.

Jongun Rim (KOR) left his first ISU Short Track World Tour event with three medals: two gold and a silver © ISU
“I respect Sighel very much,”Rim said.“It was another perfect race for me. It can be an exciting season between us all. I think it is me (who can win). But I need to do more perfect races so I can win gold medals.”
Loongs laser-focused on Mixed Relay glory
The Chinese Loongs were victorious in the Mixed Relay thanks to a slickly co-ordinated performance and Liu Shaoang's perfectly executed last-lap pass.
Relays hold a special place in Liu’s heart. He won his first Olympic Games gold medal, at PyeongChang 2018, in the men’s 5000m Relay, when he was skating for Hungary.
That season, his squad concentrated intensively on the relay, and the Hungarians brought home their country’s first ever Olympic Winter Games gold medal.
After winning the individual 500m gold at Beijing 2022, Liu is now targeting the Mixed Relay as a great opportunity to stand on top of a third Olympic podium.
“This medal is absolutely a big target for us at the Games, it is one of our most important distances for China,”he said.“This distance is short and fast, things happen in milliseconds. You have to have a clean mindset.”

Liu Shaoang celebrates the Chinese Loongs' win in the Mixed Relay in Montreal on Sunday © ISU
In the individual distances, he is also remaining tranquil.
“I’m trying to stay really focused and really calm at the same time,”he said.“Making clean passes this season is important. Everyone is skating really nervously because of Olympic selections.”
Rim skippers victorious relay team
In the 5000m Relay, which closed up the event, Rim’s Korean White Tigers won a frantic race, as they jostled for first with the Chinese Loongs.
Liu once again showed great form and speed, but it was the man of the weekend who brought Korea home.
“I’m so happy, I can’t believe I am a relay gold medallist,”said Rim.“We are such a good relay team. We are like family. We can have a great season.”

The Korean White Tigers held off the Chinese Loongs to win the 5000m Relay in Montreal on Sunday © ISU
The home crowd was disappointed as their team crashed out, leaving the Italian Gladiators to take bronze.
The season is only going to get more intense.
Rim,Sun Long(CHN), Sighel andWilliam Dandjinou(CAN) are all well in the mix in the race for the ISU Crystal Globe, with the Canadian Ice Maple having a quiet day: Dandjinou fell in in the 1000m semifinal, having also had an unforced tumble in 1500m qualifying on Saturday.
The Short Track World Tour continues next weekend at the Maurice Richard Arena in Montreal.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union