
Canadian Ice Maple Courtney Sarault took her second title of the opening weekend of theISU Short Track World Tour, winning 1500m gold in Montreal © ISU
The resurrection ofCourtney Saraultcontinued in Montreal on Sunday, as the Canadian Ice Maple added the 1500m title to the 1000m she scooped up Saturday.
Form is temporary, but class is permanent. If there had been any doubt that Sarault – who finished 14th overall last season – was getting back to her best, this performance banished it.
In the 500m, it was business as usual.Xandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions is the world champion and world-record holder in this distance, and she isn’t going to give up her sprint supremacy easily.
She proved the point in Montreal with another explosive victory, despite the best efforts of local heroKim Boutin.
Sarault: “I thought, send it”
The women’s 1500m was a huge test for Sarault. She lined up against reigning ISU Crystal Globe championKristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles, previous championKim Gilliof the Korean White Tigers, 1000m world championHanne Desmetof the Belgian Ice Bears and the in-formCorinne Stoddardof the USA Eagles.
The Canadian decided to lead from the front and tough it out: it proved the right policy. As the others tussled for position to try to make a pass, Sarault kept the right lines to keep them at bay.

Courtney Sarault (CAN) skates ahead of Corinne Stoddard (USA) and Kim Gilli (KOR) in the 1500m final © ISU
Stoddard made the best attempt at getting past, but failed and lost speed. Kim snuck through for second place, while the American was third. Santos-Griswold fell, on what was a weekend to forget.
“I think this is up there with my best weekends,”said Sarault of her victory.“The only other time I got double gold was in Kazakhstan, but I didn’t do the 500m there, and I made the A final in that today. So this is one of the best days I’ve had in my Short Track career. I was just following my instincts.”
Her strategy worked.
“I maybe didn’t want to get caught in the back, because the ice is a bit more trippy than usual. I knew if I could be strong mentally, I’d power through. I thought I could get the job done from the front. With two laps to go. I thought ‘send it, you are done after this’. I knew pressure was coming so I was hoping to hold them off.”
Kim was diplomatic about the result.
“I am happy, I can do more of this,”she said.“The next competition, I can do better. But this has been a good day.”

Kim Gilli (KOR), Courtney Sarault (CAN) and Corinne Stoddard (USA) after the 1500m final in Montreal on Sunday © ISU
Velzeboer continues Dutch 500m dominance
The quest to find out how to beat Velzeboer in the sprint goes on.
In Montreal, Kim Boutin had the best shot. A former world-record holder in the distance, the Quebec local hit the front early and tried to outgun the current champion. Stoddard has also been getting quicker in the 500m and was also in the mix. But Velzeboer once again had the jets to take gold, making a fine inside pass on Boutin on the first corner of the last lap.

World champion Xandra Velzebeor continued her sprint dominance, taking 500m gold on Sunday in Montreal © ISU
“I’m very happy, Kim definitely made it a hard race,”said the Dutch Lion.“So it was super exciting. I stayed calm and waited for my moment.”
Velzeboer is becoming more of an all-rounder while also knowing her strengths.
“I want to do everything, but 500m is my speciality,”she said.“I like the distance and I want to become better. Keep my eyes on the game. I always focus on what I need to do to get myself skating the best. If the Crystal Globe follows by doing things right, that would be a nice extra, but it’s not my total focus. I don’t get distracted by results, just be my best mentally.”
Boutin was pleased, especially given some summer disruptions.

Kim Boutin of the Canadian Ice Maples finished just behind Xandra Velzeboer (NED) to take silver in the 500m final on Sunday © ISU
“I’m pretty happy,”Boutin said.“I’m reconnecting with my start, it is feeling great. The past two years was a little bit slower. It’s really fun to race. I had an injury in the summer so it was hard to come back, but I feel there now.”
Stoddard reflects on solid start
Stoddard, meanwhile, remains the model of consistency. Last season, she finished third overall without winning a gold medal. She seems likely to be making podiums regularly again this term – and surely that top step will come, too.
“I’m really happy with bronze in the 500m because I’m not a 500m skater at all, so that just proves I am getting better,”she said.“This is my first time on the podium in the 500m and my top speed got a lot better over the summer, so I knew I’d be more competitive. I wasn’t expecting a podium today so that’s exciting."

Corinne Stoddard (USA) eyes Kim Boutin (CAN) during the 500m final Sunday in Montreal © ISU
Stoddard wasn’t as excited by the 1500m result.
“The 1500m is my favorite distance, so I’ve got mixed emotions (on the bronze medal),”she said.
“Courtney’s tracks were really good, and I didn’t have the chance to move up. I tried to pass on the last straight, but Gilli got me on the line again. But I’m happy with how I’m racing. I’m going for gold, not just medals. Making A finals consistently definitely racks up points, so I’m sitting in a good position for the Crystal Globe. Obviously, I’m hunting for my first gold of the season. I think it can happen soon as long as I skate smart.”
It is Sarault, though, who moves on to the second World Tour event in pole position – and can look forward to a happy Canadian Thanksgiving.
“I can’t go too hard on the turkey because we have competition,”she said.“It will be low key, chilling with my mom and brother and some friends. I’ve got to fuel up for next weekend.”
The Short Track World Tour continues next weekend at the Maurice Richard Arena in Montreal.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union