Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
Fan Kexin of China won an excitement-filled Ladies’ 500 m, the first of two such event this weekend. Kexin took advantage of the fact that both Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) and Arianna Fontana (ITA) fell with two laps to go. Kassandra Bradette (CAN) received a penalty in the race for causing the fall, giving her teammate the second place finish. Fontana earned third place World Cup classification points despite not finishing the race,
On the Men’s side, Samuel Girard of Canada, cheered on by the home crowd, claimed the win in the 500 m event. He had to contend with some tough competitors as Dajing Wu (CHN) and Victor An (RUS) were right on his heels. Wu finished in second place, while Victor An (RUS) finished in third place. Abzal Azhgaliyev (KAZ) crossed the line in fourth place while Shaoang Liu (HUN) did not finish the race.
Korea claims the top two spots on the podium in the Ladies’ 1500 m event. Suk Hee Shim (KOR) won the event ahead of her teammate Minjeong Choi. Shim took the lead with one lap to go from Suzanne Schulting (NED), who finished the race in third place. Ekaterina Efremenkova (RUS), Katherine Reutter (USA) and Kim Boutin (CAN) finished fourth, fifth and sixth place respectively, all earning valuable World Cup classification points.
Sjinkie Knegt (NED) took his first win of the season, finishing first in the Men’s 1500 m event. He took the lead with one lap to go from Vladislav Bykanov (ISR). Bykanov, who trains with the Dutch team, finished second in the event. Semen Elistratov (RUS) held on to third place, crossing the line ahead of Pascal Dion (CAN). Kai An (CHN) and Da Woon Sin (KOR) were fifth and sixth, while Shaolin Sandor Liu (HUN) did not finish the race.
Racing resumes tomorrow with the Ladies and Men 1000 m and the second 500 m events. The teams advancing in Ladies 3000 m and Men 5000 m Relays are the same ones: Canada, Hungary, Korea and Netherlands.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox