
#ShortTrackSkating

Hanne Desmet (BEL) pips Kristen Santos-Griswold in the Women's 1000m in Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

The world’s top four female Short Track speed skaters treated a noisy crowd to a memorable day of racing in Seoul at the final ISU World Cup of the year. Hometown star Kim Gilli (KOR) remains the one to beat after yet another 1500m triumph, but her rivals have set up a captivating rest of the season.
The drama started early in the Mokdong Arena and never stopped. It may be unwise to be picking season highlights at this stage but the women’s 1000m final will take some beating.Hanne Desmet(BEL),Kristen Santos-Griswold(USA) andXandra Velzeboer(NED) have all shone brightly this season and none of them disappointed in a race brimming with quality and incident.
A frenetic start saw the lead change regularly before Velzeboer stepped up.
“With four laps to go I was in front and I thought now I just have to go,” the Dutchwoman, a 500m winner in Beijing last weekend, said.
But even her speed could not hold off the power of Santos-Griswold and Desmet, with the latter’s race craft ultimately proving the difference.


Kriten Santos-Griswold (USA), Hanne Desmet (BEL), Xandra Belzevoer (NED) on the podium inSeoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

“I know how equal we are, it could have gone either way (but) I think I am just pretty feisty in those situations. I just go for it and I see what happens. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn’t,” Desmet said after her third World Cup win of the season (the other two coming in the 1500m). “Xandra and Santos are amazing skaters so it was a nice battle,” she added.
The feeling was reciprocated, with third-placed Velzeboer delighted to be tagged alongside the first and second-place finishers.
“I gave it my all and I was happy the way I positioned myself and the way I was tactically skating. I was really alert and it was very nice to be skating a race like this,” Velzeboer said. “Hanne and Kristen were also really fast. It was cool to race. The level is just really high.”

Kim glides to yet another 1500m win
As Desmet acknowledged, the one other leading racer who would have elevated the final of the 1000m even higher was undoubtedlyKim Gilli. But the 19-year-old was busy winning her third 1500m of the season.

Kim Gilli (KOR) skates to her third world cup win this season,Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

Corrine Stoddard(USA), a committed front-runner, did her best to unsettle the brilliant Korean in the distance final but neither she nor the rest of the field had any answer when Gilli responded to the crowd’s chanting by smoothly taking the lead with six laps to go. She never looked like relinquishing it.
“I was very excited when the crowd roared. Of course, it helps me fight,” Gilli said before offering her own reason as to how she has claimed three wins and two second place finishes in her five World Cup 1500m finals this season.
“It’s my stamina, that’s what works,” she said.
Stoddard’s silver was mighty impressive, as wasGong Li’s bronze. For the USA skater it was a best-ever 1500m finish, just a week after recording her best-ever 1000m finish. Meanwhile, the Chinese athlete has now collected three World Cup medals in a week, having previously never won a single one.
“I am very happy with my progress and I am feeling really strong. It’s just the start for me,” Stoddard said, a sentiment no doubt shared by the 23-year-old Gong.

Corinne Stoddard (USA), Kim Gilli (KOR), Gong Li (CHN) with their 1500m medals,Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

The medal races came to an end with a remarkable mixed relay final. After a captivating first attempt ended with the Koreans infringing at the final corner, a re-start was ordered. The Netherlands, who had crashed to the ice alongside the home team in that first effort, somehow gathered their energy to go again and secure yet another relay gold. They finished ahead of Italy in silver with USA and Korea sharing bronze.
“It was hard work,” Velzeboer admitted. “But I am really pleased.”


Mixed relay medallists Korea, Netherlands and ItalyinSeoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

Tune in on Sunday for the final World Cup action of 2023. If it is anything like Saturday, you are in for a treat.

For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union