#ShortTrackWorldTour
The decisive sixth and last leg of the inauguralISU Short Track World Touris set to unfold at the Forum Assago in Milan, fromFebruary14 to 16, with everything still on the line.
This iconic venue will host Short Track competitions during the 2026 Milano Cortina Olympic Winter Games, making the event a thrilling preview of the action to come just one year from now!
Three prestigious ISU Crystal Globes will be up for grabs.

Ciao Milano! The city's iconic cathedral welcomes the world's top skaters ahead of the ISU Short Track World Tour finale. © ISU
In the men's category, the prize seems to be heading the way of this season’s sensational breakthrough performer,William Dandjinouof the Canadian Ice Maples. Dandjinou is expected to lift the Crystal Globe unless he has a truly forgettable weekend, while his friend and rivalJens van ’t Woutof the Dutch Lions puts in the performance of a lifetime.
The newly introduced ISU Team Crystal Globe also looks to be heading to Canada after solid performances throughout the season and across the squad’s men and women.
It is in the women’s competition, however, where the real excitement lies. Six different skaters could still get their hands on the glassware, and it is anyone’s guess who it will be. An exciting weekend of action lies ahead…
Six-way tussle for women’s Crystal Globe
Even by the unpredictable standards of Short Track, the destiny of the women’s ISU Crystal Globe is fiendish to forecast.
Kristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles lies first in the standings, with her teammateCorinne StoddardandXandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions both within 30 points of her.

Women's Crystal Globe leader Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) wins the 500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul, Korea. © ISU
WithHanne Desmetof the Belgian Ice Bears also just 91 points off the lead, all four contenders head to Italy with a virtual blank slate: anyone can seize the title with the right combination of podium finishes.
Choi Min Jeongof the Korean White Tigers and her teammate, defending championKim Gilli, also have an outside chance of overall victory.
The pair did not race last weekend in Tilburg (NED) as they were competing at the Asian Winter Games. This places them 186 (Kim) and 196 (Choi) points off the lead but both are supremely capable of winning across the distances and upsetting the order should the top four falter.
So who does the form favor?
Santos-Griswold, as the most versatile of the leading quartet, has perhaps the most chances to gather points. She regularly wins across all three distances and is in the best racing shape of her career.
She’s been cursed by some poor luck this winter, but should her fortunes change from a tough time in Tilburg, she should have just enough to take the title.
Desmet is perhaps the athlete in the best form. She destroyed the opposition in the 1000m in Tilburg, and also crossed the line way ahead in the 1500m - only to be penalized.
Working against the Belgian is the fact she doesn’t tend to score highly in the 500m, and that an arm injury picked up in the Netherlands might have an effect on her performance.

Hanne Desmet (BEL, 4) holds off Crystal Globe rivals Corinne Stoddard (USA, 5) and Xandra Velzeboer (NED, 3) in the 1000m in Tilburg (NED). © ISU
Fitness is also a factor for Velzeboer. She is the athlete with the richest pedigree in this top four, and has radically improved her 1500m of late – but is still returning from an ankle injury.
Stoddard’s rise has gone somewhat under the radar. She has steadily collected podium places and points, racing with determination and tactical smarts to edge close to the top.
The two White Tigers need little introduction, and if three-time Olympic gold medalist Choi and her 20-year-old apprentice Kim don’t pick up the ISU Crystal Globe themselves, they’re still likely to influence its destiny.

Korean pair Choi Min Jeong and Kim Gilli are outsiders for the Globe but could have a say in its destiny. © ISU
Also hunting for podiums?Arianna FontanaandElisa Confortolaof the Italian Gladiators will be determined to put on a show on home ice, while a resurrectedCourtney Saraultand the ever-improvingFlorence Brunelleof the Canadian Ice Maples is also back on form.
Dandjinou resumes rivalry with van ’t Wout
It’s turning into a true heavyweight bout: William Dandjinou of the Canadian Ice Maples against Jens van ’t Wout of the Dutch Lions.
Dandjinou has had a dream season, winning golds across all three distances throughout the World Tour.
He has struck a perfect balance between physical might, tactical mastery and mental robustness. His love of trying to “create a little magic”, and his showmanship, meanwhile, have injected star power into the sport.

Flying high: William Dandjinou (CAN), pictured winning the 1500m in Tilburg (NED), can put the shine on a dream season with victory in Milan. © ISU
Dandjinou has enough of a cushion that he doesn’t need to turn on the style in Milan to win the Crystal Globe – coasting round in a couple of A finals would reap enough points. But caution isn’t his style: the Canadian will take risks to try to grab more glory.
Van ’t Wout can be his nemesis. The Dutchman has taken his game to another level this season too, and can win through sheer speed or via sharp thinking – as he did in the 1000m in Tilburg, where he blocked Dandjinou expertly.
Van ’t Wout will need a perfect weekend and a Dandjinou disaster to make up a 182-point margin, however.

Jens van ‘t Wout (NED), pictured celebrating Mixed Relay victory in Tilburg (NED), will be waiting to pounce should Dandjinou slip up. © ISU
Pietro Sighelof the Italian Gladiators has also stood out this season, and has spoken of his desire to put in a fine performance in front of this rare Italian home crowd.
Elsewhere,Park Ji Wonof the Korean White Tigers returns to the Tour with a point to prove. Park won the first two ISU Crystal Globes in style but has been a little below his own remarkable standards this term, and will aim to see out the season with a touch of gold.
Steven Duboisof the Canadian Ice Maples remains king of the 500m. When the diminutive racer gets to the first corner ahead and turns on the burners, even Dandjinou and van ’t Wout are left in his wake. Sometimes only his teammate, the explosiveJordan Pierre-Gilles, has the potential to catch him.

Steven Dubois (CAN, right) wins the 500m ahead of compatriot Jordan Pierre-Gilles, center, and Latvia’s Roberts Kruzbergs, left, in Seoul, Korea. © ISU
Roberts Kruzbergsof the Latvian Golden Stars has had some impressive moments this term, while the Chinese Loongs, led byLiu Shaolin,Liu ShaoangandLin Xiaojun, will be looking to make up for quiet seasons by signing off in style.
Maples coasting towards team triumph
In the Team Crystal Globe, the Canadian Ice Maples hold an enormous lead and are heading towards an impressive win.
The Dutch Lions will attempt to hold off any charge from the Korean White Tigers to secure second place – the Lions took advantage of the Korean absence in Tilburg to establish a slim 223-point lead going into the final round.
ISU Women’s Crystal Globe standings
1. Kristen Santos-Griswold – 878 points
2. Corinne Stoddard – 850 points
3. Xandra Velzeboer – 848 points

ISU Men’s Crystal Globe standings
1. William Dandjinou – 1012 points
2. Jens van ’t Wout – 830 points
3. Steven Dubois – 658 points

ISU Team Crystal Globe standings
1. Canadian Ice Maples – 7422 points
2. Dutch Lions – 5771 points
3. Korean White Tigers – 5448 points

The Milano Duomo Photo Shooting pictures are accessible for downloadhere.

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union