The first ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating event of the season took place at Palaghiaccio, Bormio, Italy, from 8 to 10 November, with a brilliant lineup of racers from the Republic of Korea and China dominating proceedings.
Rim and two Kims make mark for Korea

Songmi Oh and Minji Kim (KOR) at the ISU Junior World Cup Short Track #1 in Bromio (ITA) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
Saturday was the Republic of Korea’s day. In the Women’s 1500m, Kim Minji (KOR) showed that the production line of skaters from Seoul and beyond is still steady: she stormed to victory ahead ofYu Sumin(KOR), who won gold medals at this level last season. Li Jinzi (CHN), who also topped the podium in 2023/24, was third.

Rim Jongun(KOR) ISU Junior World Cup Short Track #1 in Bromio (ITA) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
In the same distance for the men, the winner was no surprise: the tactically brilliantRim Jongun(KOR) thrived at this level last season, and now has another year of skating under his belt. He defeated promising newcomer Park Seojun (KOR), who came second, andZhanshuo Lou(HKG), who grabbed third.
In the Women’s 1000m (1), China struck back: the powerfulLyu Wanyu(CHN), who made podiums last season, looks to have stepped up a level. She sped to victory ahead of  Zhao Kexin (CHN) andChung Jaehee(KOR).

Lyu Wanyu(CHN) ISU Junior World Cup Short Track #1 in Bromio (ITA) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
But Korea made it three out of four individual golds in the Men’s 1000m (1).Kim Minwoo(KOR), who took bronze at this level last year, was lightning as he won the race ahead of silver medalistZhang Xinzhe(CHN) andJoo Jaehee(KOR), who finished third.
In the 2000m mixed relay, Republic of Korea beat China and Canada to cap a near-perfect day.
Rest of the world strikes back on Sunday
Sunday started with relays: a superb lineup of Chung Jaehee,Kang Minji, Kim Minji and Oh Songmi took gold in the Women’s 3000m for Republic of Korea, ahead of China and Hungary – who were the first Europeans to step on the podium during the weekend.
China’s Sun Xiao, Tian Minshuo,Zhang BohaoandZhang Xinzhethen secured men’s 3000m relay gold – with Canada second and Japan in third.

Victoria Jean-Baptiste (CAN) ISU Junior World Cup Short Track #1 in Bromio (ITA) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
The first non-Asian nation gold came in the Women’s 500m:Victoria Jean-Baptisteof Canada showed raw power to take the title ahead of France’sBerenice Combyin second, and Lam Ching Yan of Hong Kong, who took bronze to seal an excellent weekend for her country.

Victor Chartrand (CAN) ISU Junior World Cup Short Track #1 in Bromio (ITA) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
Victor Chartrand (CAN) then made sure it was a Canadian sprint double in the Men’s 500m – he showed velocity reminiscent of some of his senior teammates as he vanquished Koo Minseung (KOR) and Park Seojun (KOR) into silver and bronze.
In the Women’s 1000m (2), Korea triumphed again, however, with Oh, who had a terrific season at this level last year, demonstrating a maturity that bodes well for her nation’s skating future.Yang Jingru(CHN) – 1500m gold medalist at the Gangwon 2024 Winter Youth Olympic Games – was second, with the steady Yu Sumin (KOR) third.
Rim, meanwhile, confirmed that he was the star of the weekend – as well as the fact that Korea remain the top team at this level – with a remarkable showing in the Men’s 1000m (2). He tore ahead of Zhang Bohao (CHN) and Bogdan Vekhov (KAZ) – one to watch from Kazakhstan – to grab his second gold of the weekend.
The second ISU Junior World Cup Short Track of the season takes place at the same venue, Palaghiaccio, Bormio, next weekend: 14-16 November. Expect the same skaters to be in the frame – with some surprises, too.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union