
#ShortTrackWorldTour
Short Track star Itzhak de Laat has garnered as much praise for his extraordinary design skills as he has for his world class skating over recent years – and now the Dutchman has combined his two passions to help create a coveted new prize for his sport.
De Laat, who is well known for creating his own vibrant headwear – his current helmet features mythical Greek figure Medusa – has been commissioned to design unique, special edition helmets for the winners of the ISU Crystal Globe trophies.
These one-off, customized items are worn by the winner for the entire next season, marking them out as the reigning number one and setting them out from the pack.
The 2023/24 champions, Kim Gilli and Park Ji Won, both of the Korean White Tigers, were presented with their helmets at the inaugural edition of the Short Track World Tour in Montreal.

2023/24 Individual Crystal Globe winners Kim Gilli and Park Ji Won from Korean White Tigers are awarded new helmets ©International Skating Union (ISU)
“It used to be a hobby for me but it’s starting to get more serious,” said De Laat about the job. “I like to be creative so I literally design the helmets and I also learned the skill of how to make them.
"I use an airbrush, I use a pencil, I use paint. Everything you see is handmade. It will be different each year but you will still see that it is the Crystal Globe helmet.

Individual Chrystal Globe helmets collection 2023/24 designed by Itzhak de Laat (NED) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
"To get a design that is for everyone – we really succeeded at that. I’m really relieved that everyone likes it. They look awesome, and they earned those helmets, for sure.”
De Laat is from an artistic family. “The apple doesn’t fall too far from the tree – both my parents are artists,” he said. “My mum does all kinds of art projects and my dad makes a lot of drawings. At school, when I was in maths class, I’d just be doodling.”
He is likely to expand on his burgeoning career in design after finishing skating. “I’m aiming to make it to the Olympics in Milan, but after that, I’d definitely like to do something with design – helmets and other things too. It would be great to get involved in something like F1.
“Doing the ISU winner helmets is definitely something good for my CV, it is something legit. It has made me think about my life after skating and less worried that I will have something I enjoy to do.”
The debut recipients are certainly pretty happy. “Wearing this helmet will make me most visible wherever I am,” said Kim. “it really is an honorable prize.”

Kim Gilli from Korean White Tigers wears new Crystal Globe helmet ©International Skating Union (ISU)
“I feel really good about it,” said Park. “I’m wearing this new helmet during the inaugural World Tour – there is nothing more meaningful than being part of something special like this.”

Park Ji Won from Korean White Tigers wears new Crystal Globe helmet ©International Skating Union (ISU)
Colin Smith, Director General of the ISU, added. “It’s celebrating their number one status. This is something we will do each season from now. We are delighted to launch it.”
Find out more about theISU Crystal Globe via thefact sheet.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union