
#ShortTrackSkating
Kristen Santos-Griswold’s (USA) stunning display on the first day of the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Gdansk (POL) has ensured that the battle to be crowned the best female Skater of 2023/24 will go down to the wire.

Kristen Santos-Griswold celebrates victory in the 1500m in the final World Cup in Gdansk, Poland © ISU

The American star came into the final World Cup of the season knowing she needed to produce her very best and hope that other results went her way.
So far, so good.
First,KimGilli(KOR), who started the day with a 135-point lead in the race for the Crystal Globe presented by Dunamu, made a “big mistake” and failed to progress from her 500m quarter-final. Next Santos-Griswold stepped up to win her first-ever World Cup 1500m title.

Kristen Santos-Griswold's victory closed the gap in the race for the Crystal Globe in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

“I’m really excited about it, a huge step in the right direction,” she said, having reduced Kim’s lead to just 51 points.
“Of course (the Crystal Globe race is in her mind) but after falling in the final of the 1000m last week (at the Dresden World Cup) it put me back a little more than I would have hoped but we’ll see.”
Corinne Stoddard(USA), third in the 1500m with defending Crystal Globe championSuzanne Schulting(NED) second, is in no doubt her teammate can still do it.
“She deserves it, I think she is the best out there and I can’t wait to see what she does tomorrow,” said Stoddard, whose bronze was her fifth individual World Cup medal of a breakout season.
“I think it’s going to come down to a great finish.”


(left to right) Suzanne Schulting, Kristen Santos-Griswold and Corinne Stoddard celebrate their 1500m medals in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

Battle of the best
The stage certainly could not be set any better. The two protagonists will go head-to-head an event they both favour, the 1000m. With 100 points awarded to the winner, 80 to the silver medallist and 70 for the bronze, Kim remains a narrow favorite but the Korean knows she still has to produce her best.
“Today I made a big mistake, I will do better tomorrow,” Kim said. “It will be very close. It’s fun.”
The pair’s battle is so engaging, even their rivals are loving it.
“They are skating really, really well. I have seen them skating all season,” said Schulting, who has only just returned after missing three-quarters of the season due to medical reasons.

Suzanne Schulting skated to 1500m silver in her second World Cup back on the circuit in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

“It’s good for Short Track that Skaters like that are skating so well. It’s really fun to skate against them and I know where I have to go. Of course, it’s annoying too but it really keeps me fresh and motivated,” she added after admitting her legs “are not yet ready” to stay with Santos-Griswold.
Returning to form
The three-time Olympic Champion is not the only Short Track superstar to be finding her way back to full power after a long absence. Canada’sKim Boutintook a prolonged break after winning her third Olympic medal in Beijing, but like Schulting, she is loving being back in the hunt.
“I am racing with what I have right now,” Boutin said after claiming 500m bronze behind silver medallistHanneDesmet(BEL) and winnerSelmaPoutsma(NED).

(left to right) Hanne Desmet, Selma Poutsma and Kim Boutin shared the first 500m podium of the World Cup in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

“I am not in the level I want to be but it’s OK, it’s part of the process. I don’t have the same punch but bronze with that is good. That was really fun.”
She and long-time rival Schulting will undoubtedly be ones to watch at next month’s World Championships in Rotterdam (15-17 March).
Poutsma’s thoughts are a little more immediate. After claiming her first-ever solo World Cup win, she cannot wait to test herself on Sunday against the undoubted sprint queen,XandraVelzeboer(NED) in the second of the two 500m.
In the absence of Velzeboer, who raced the 1500m on Saturday and finished a highly credible fourth, Poutsma had dominated each round of the 500m heats. But in the final another Skater, who like Santos-Griswold and Velzeboer is turning herself into a true all-rounder, took the battle to the Dutchwoman.

Selma Poutsma triumphs in the first of two 500m races at the final World Cup in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

“I was really scared I’d lost it,” Poutsma said after triumphing in a photo-finish ahead of Desmet, traditionally a distance specialist.
“I am really excited to see how the comparison will be tomorrow. It’s important tomorrow, it’s the last race before the Worlds and I hope I can get a good feeling out of it.”
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) ISU European Short Track Championships sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union