#ShortTrackWorldTour
The 2024/25ISU Short Track World Tour Tilburg Odido Cuptakes place 7-9 February in Tilburg, Netherlands – with several exciting young skaters looking to take decisive steps towards winning their first ever ISU Crystal Globe.

Ready to go in Tilburg (NED): skaters prepare for the fifth ISU Short Track World Tour event of the season © ISU
The event is the penultimate stop of the ISU Short Track World Tour, which concludes the following weekend in Milan, Italy.
In the women’s competition, a thrilling two-way battle for supremacy is unfolding. Kristen Santos-Griswold of the USA Eagles, reinvigorated after a stellar performance in Seoul (KOR), currently leads the pack. However, Xandra Velzeboer of the Dutch Lions—becoming an increasingly dominant force across all distances—is just 10 points behind, keeping the race wide open.
On the men’s side, William Dandjinou of the Canadian Ice Maples has been nearly unstoppable this season. With Park Ji Won of the Korean White Tigers competing at the Asian Winter Games this weekend, Dandjinou has a golden opportunity to secure the coveted Crystal Globe.
Meanwhile, in the ISU Team Crystal Globe standings, a brand-new competition for the 2024/25 season, the Ice Maples will aim to hold their lead. With the White Tigers absent, the Dutch Lions will be eager to capitalize and push their way up to second place.

Who will prevail at the ISU Short Track World Tour Tilburg Odido Cup? © ISU
Santos-Griswold seeks to reinforce No.1 status
Kristen Santos-Griswold has had a rollercoaster career: the American rocket has improved season on season but was left disappointed by Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games, where circumstances conspired against her and she didn’t make an individual podium.
She pondered quitting the sport but instead came back fitter, stronger, and mentally more robust. She suffered at the start of this season with some unfortunate crashes, but at ISU Short Track World Tour event number four in Seoul, Santos-Griswold struck a rich vein of form,bagging a stunning double goldto top the rankings.

Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) celebrates 500m victory at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul, Rep. Korea © ISU
Able to prevail over any distance, Santos-Griswold showed she has what it takes to win big titles when she secured her first ISU World Championships gold medal last season. If she can avoid the mayhem – a big if, as ever – she will be favorite to scoop the Crystal Globe.
Just behind her lies Velzeboer. The Dutch Lion, 23, has also improved significantly: previously a pure sprinter, she has added the ability to compete in the 1500m to her ever-improving 1000m skills and near-unbeatability in the 500m.
She showcased this at the recent ISU European Championships in Dresden (GER), where she sealedher debut 1500m title. Velzeboer was hampered by injury last month, however, so questions remain about whether she will she be at full power on home ice in Tilburg.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) on her way to 1500m gold at the ISU European Short TRack Championships in Dresden, Germany © ISU
Others to look out for?Arianna Fontanaof the Italian Gladiators, fresh fromwinning her 26thcareer European Championship medal, who is competing in Short Track and Long Track this year;Corinne Stoddardof the American Eagles, who is arguably the most-improved skater this season; the always-in-contentionHanne Desmetof the Belgian Ice Bears; Canada’s speedyKim BoutinandDanae Blais, plus the up-and-coming ItaliansGloria IoriattiandElisa Confortola.
Dandjinou looks to cap season in style
William Dandjinou has been the Short Track story of the year. Having scooped his first ISU World Championships gold last season, this term he transformed from occasional podium contender into undisputed No.1.

Leading the way: William Dandjinou (CAN) wins 1000m gold at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul, Rep. Korea © ISU
Dandjinou laid down the gauntlet in the ISU Short Track World Tour’s opening double-header in Montreal (CAN), and then backed it up with some powerful wins at the Beijing (CHN) and Seoul (KOR) meets.
A little like Santos-Griswold, Dandjinou always had the physical strength and tactical smarts to be the best: the final ingredient was belief. Full of confidence across all three distances, if his upward trajectory can continue, he could become Canada’s next breakout Olympic star.
Standing in his way isPark Ji Won. The Korean White Tiger has never been short of self-belief – he frequently declares that he is ready to defeat Dandjinou – and has won both ISU Crystal Globes since the trophy was inaugurated in 2022/23.

Park Ji Won (KOR) with the 2023 ISU Crystal Globe in Dordrecht, Netherlands © ISU
His absence will be felt this weekend. Park is determined to show he is still the man to beat as the ISU World Championships and the 2026 Milano Cortina Olympics come into focus.
Also in contention will be Jens van 't Wout of the Dutch Lions. Fresh from a ISU European Championships at which hethundered to a superb double gold, the 23-year-old is powerful, versatile and savvy.

Jens van 't Wout (NED) with one of the gold medals he won at the ISU European Short Track Championships 2025 in Dresden, Germany © ISU
Pietro Sighelof the Italian Gladiators is also coming into form and had a fine duel with Van 't Wout at the Euros, whileSteven DuboisandJordan Pierre-Gillesof the Canadian Ice Maples have also been constantly in contention over the last couple of seasons.
Might there also be a Baltic or Eastern European charge in Tilburg?Roberts Kruzbergsof the Latvian Golden Stars, andMichal Niewinskiof the Polish Hussars, have been stirring things up with some aggressive but tactically excellent racing this season, and look sure to translate this into big titles eventually.

Roberts Kruzbergs (LAT) competes in the 1000m at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Montreal, Canada © ISU
Can Koreans catch runaway Ice Maples?
The Korean White Tigers started the season as favorites for the new ISU Team Crystal Globe: the winter before, their Skaters had won both individual Crystal Globes, and their strength in depth in both genders suggested they could clean up in the relays, where points count double.
It hasn’t worked out like that.
The rise of Dandjinou – backed up by heavy point-scoring from Dubois, Pierre-Gilles, Boutin and Blais, and some well-drilled relay wins – has put the Ice Maples firmly on top.
They have a hefty 668-point advantage with two events remaining. With Park, Choi, and Kim competing at the Asian Winter Games, the White Tigers won’t have the opportunity to close the gap this weekend, leaving them vulnerable to the Dutch Lions, who will be eager to seize second place

Canadian Ice Maples Jordan Pierre-Gilles and Steven Dubois celebrate victory in the 5000m relay at the ISU Short Track World Tour Speed Skating in Montreal, Canada © ISU

ISU Women’s Crystal Globe standings
1. Kristen Santos-Griswold – 738 points
2. Xandra Velzeboer – 728 points
3. Kim Gilli – 692 points

ISU Men’s Crystal Globe standings
1. William Dandjinou – 912 points
2. Park Jiwon – 586 points
3. Jens van ’t Wout – 580 points
ISU Team Crystal Globe standings
1. Canadian Ice Maples – 6116 points
2. Korean White Tigers – 5448 points
3. Dutch Lions – 4120 points

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!




Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union