
#ShortTrackSkating
While the Republic of Korea was showing the world it still rules Short Track Speed Skating’s senior level over the weekend, the Asian nation simultaneously signaled its future is bright too as it achieved some sensational results in the sport’s junior ranks at this season’s third and final ISU Junior World Cup in Heerenveen, the Netherlands.

No.1: Yu Sumin (KOR) celebrates gold in Heerenveen, Netherlands © ISU
AsKim Gilli(KOR) won the Women’s ISU World Cup Crystal Globe andPark Ji Won(KOR) was victorious in the Men’s in Gdansk, Poland, on Saturday in Heerenveen, Korea secured first place in all four races, and on Sunday bagged another four gold medals.
The team began in style, with Yu Sumin (KOR) showing tactical mastery to win her second 1500m junior title of the season. She finished ahead of teammateOh Songmi(KOR) – who took gold in this distance at Junior World Cup 1 – and Zoe Florence Deltrap (NED), in third.
Shin Dong Min Shin Dong Min(KOR) then dazzled in the Men’s 1500m (1), finishing ahead of Lou Zhanshuo (HKG) and Zhang Zixia (CHN). Shin has been magnificent in these junior events all season and looks a likely bet to step up to the senior squad.

Gold medalist Shin Dong Min (KOR) at the ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Heerenveen, Netherlands © ISU
Saturday concluded with the 1000m, and a new name announced herself at this level. The 15-year-old Chung Jaehee (KOR), who caught the eye at the Gangwon 2024 Winter Youth Olympic Games last month, won gold here – her first title at this level – with a terrific burst of speed, ahead of Kang Minji (KOR) and Yan Tongyao (CHN).

Chung Jaehee (KOR) celebrates victory in Heerenveen, Netherlands © ISU
Korea then completed a perfect day with Rim Jongun (KOR) grabbing glory in the Men’s 1000m, ahead of Han Byeongchan (KOR) and Sun Xiao (CHN). This was Rim’s fourth gold of the Junior series. Like Yu and Shin, he is a true prospect.
Rivals hit back on day two
Korea also shone on Sunday – when the rest of the world at least got a look at the top step of the podium.
The excellent Yang Jingru (CHN) stormed to victory in the Women’s 1500m (2), ahead of Oh Songmi (KOR) and Yan Tongyao (CHN).

China's Yang Jingru storms to victory in the Women's 1500m in Heerenveen, Netherlands © ISU
Rim completed a dominant weekend in his favored distances, however, showing off his technique and tactics to perfect effect to win his second title, the Men’s 1500m (2). Sun Xiao (CHN) was second, withAlessandro Loreggia(ITA) claiming third place and a rare podium spot for Europe.
Chung Jaehee (KOR) also sealed an impressive double, thundering ahead in the Women’s 500m for her second gold of the weekend.Berenice Comby(FRA) was second and Yang Rongmiao (CHN) third.
The Men’s 500m was a thrilling conclusion to the individual events: Sean Shuai (USA), fresh from taking gold in this distance at the Gangwon 2024 Winter Youth Olympic Games, won his first ISU Junior World Cup title, beating the brilliant Shin Dong Min (KOR) andTawan Thomas(FRA).

The medalists in the men's 500m (L-R): Shin Dong Min (KOR), Sean Shuai (USA) and Tawan Thomas (FRA) in Heerenveen, Netherlands © ISU
Korea then won the Women’s Relay, and took second place in the Men’s, behind a well-drilled Canada unit. Korea’s fourth gold medal of the day was in the Mixed Team Relay.

Canada's Mathieu Pelletier celebrates crossing the line in first position in the Men's 3000m Relay in Heerenveen, Netherlands © ISU
All in all, it was a tantalizing warm-up for theISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships, which take place next weekend, February 22-25, in Gdansk. Once again, expect it to be Korea against the world.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union