#WorldShortTrack #UpAgain

Kim Boutin (CAN) claimed two silver medals on Saturday to take the overall lead. © International Skating Union
Less than two hours from her hometown,Kim Boutin(CAN) is trying to bounce back in Montreal.
Boutin left the Olympic Winter Games Beijing 2022 with a single bronze medal, a disappointing haul after winning three medals at PyeongChang 2018.
Well, bounce back she did.
Boutin won silver in the 500m and 1500m distances on the first day of finals at the World Short Track Championships.
“For me it is nice after the (Olympic) Games,” Boutin said. “Those Games were kind of hard for me. So to just jump on the podium again was fun. Now I am just enjoying the crowd and having fun.”
The Canadian spent the month after the Olympics preparing for these kinds of results. “I just wanted to feel happy at the (Olympic) Games and enjoy the moment. Now I pushed myself a little bit more to perform again and I think I am there now,” she said.
Boutin leads the overall standings going into the final day, but she knows a target is on her back.
“For sure I want the World Championship. I have never done that. Being in that position is kind of challenging so I am going to do my best and fight and enjoy my race,” said Boutin.

Choi Min Jeong won gold in the 1500m, while teammate Seo Whi Min took bronze © International Skating Union
The overall title is up for grabs after 2021 championSuzanne Schulting(NED) tested positive for Covid-19 this week and is unable to compete in Montreal. Boutin leadsMin Jeong Choi(KOR) by three points in the overall standings.
Choi had her own eventful day on the track. A multiple world champion, Choi cruised to gold in the 1500m final, while settling for a victory in the B final in the 500m. Her teammateWhi Min Seo(KOR) claimed bronze in the 1500m.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) won gold in the 500m, while teammate Yara van Kerkhof (NED) took bronze © International Skating Union
Choi looked strong in the heats, but got stuck in the back of the pack in her 500m semifinal. She made a late charge, but failed to qualify for the A final after losing in a photo finish toYara van Kerkhof(NED), who went on to win bronze in the final.
Xandra Velzeboer(NED) put together a strong race to claim an unexpected gold in the 500m. It was the first individual World Championship gold for the 20-year-old.
“It’s amazing. It’s unbelievable. I know I can skate good 500s, but I didn’t really expect this to happen,” said Velzeboer.
The Dutch youngster made a nice move to find the lead and did not look back.
“I had so much speed and used it so well. I was very calm during the race. So when I came in to the lead it was just like, okay, finish this well and stay on my feet. When I came over the line, it was amazing,” said Velzeboer.

Canada and Republic of Korea both qualified for the 3000m relay final © International Skating Union
She went on to help the Dutch team qualify for the A final in the Women’s 3000m relay. Republic of Korea, Italy, and Canada round out the rest of the field for Sunday’s race.
Choi and Boutin will go head-to-head again in the 3000m superfinal and 1000m, as they race for the overall world champion title. Velzeboer could steal it from both of them with another big day.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union