#ShortTrackWorldTour

William Dandjinouhas been head and shoulders above the opposition all season – in every sense – and the Canadian Ice Maple stood taller than ever, as he blasted to another 1500m gold medal, at the 2024/25 ISU Short Track World Tour Tilburg Odido Cup.
William Dandjinou (CAN) is victorious in the Men’s 1500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour Odido Cup, in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
Dandjinou’s lead in the race for the ISU Crystal Globe is mathematically assailable, but he is now highly unlikely to be caught.
He was victorious in a tight 1500m – in which local heroJens van ‘t Wout(NED) of the Dutch Lions and the ever-improvingPietro Sighelof the Italian Gladiators threw everything they could at him.
In the 500m, meanwhile,Steven DuboisandJordan Pierre-Gillescapped a fine day for the Canadians, finishing first and second respectively, with Van ‘t Wout getting the bronze.

Dandjinou does the job in the 1500m
Dandjinou and van ‘t Wout have a long-standing friendship: the Dutchman lived in Canada when he was younger and developed a taste for maple syrup. Dandjinou recently gave him several litres of the tasty treat, made by his mother.
Over recent seasons, as Jens recovered from injury and William tried to find form, they encouraged each other.
In the 1500m in Tilburg, a partisan Dutch crowd roared on the Lion, but the Ice Maple led from mid race and cranked up the speed. Van ‘t Wout and Sighel swapped positions, but Dandjinou had just enough in the tank to hold them off.

(L-R) Jens Van T Wout (NED) takes silver, William Dandjinou (CAN) gold and Pietro Sighel (ITA) bronze  in the Men’s 1500m Final in Tilburg © ISU
“It felt good, it’s a long season, you get tired, but I was super happy,” said the Ice Maple. “It was a good tactical race and these guys are so strong, especially Jens. In front of this home crowd he wanted to make a show, and it worked. It was a great race.
“We are competitors – but he was one of the first guys I raced internationally, at the Dutch Invitational, and we have known each other for a while.
“I really respect his racing ways and his philosophy. He comes from a great family. He’s a little bit Canadian because he lived in Canada for a while. So we have some common values.”
The Dutchman returned the praise. “I got close to William this time, my legs felt good but I was not smart enough to attack sooner,” he said. “He just raced smarter. We are good buddies, but on the ice I want to beat him. I’m getting closer.”
He also intends to pay Dandjinou back. “I am going to give him some waffles, because I have got to get my maple syrup. Canadian Maple syrup tasted better and his mum makes some great stuff.”
Dandjinou added: “He’s probably waiting until the end of the competition to give me the waffles, letting me focus. He’s a great athlete and a great human being.”

Sven Roes and Jens van ’T Wout (NED) and Thomas Nadalini (ITA) in the Men’s 1500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour Odido Cup, in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
Sighel was happy with bronze. “I did one of my best tactical races,” he said. “But Jens did a really good pass. Maybe without Jens I could have attacked William. But William is always the best. The bronze is good for me.
“I hope my peak is next week, for Milano, at home, that will be a special competition.”
Rocket Dubois hits top velocity
Dandjinou may be the best skater around at the moment, but it is his diminutive teammateSteven Duboiswho remains king of the sprints.
Dubois has been eyeing the 500m world record for a while, and although it wasn’t going to happen on the softer ice of Tilburg, he looks unbeatable when he gets to the first corner in front. Here, he did just that, leaving speedy teammate Pierre-Gilles to take second, and van ‘t Wout third.

Steven Dubois (CAN) wins the gold medal in the Men 500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour Odido Cup, in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
“It’s super important to get that good start, this ice breaks a lot so you’ve got to get to max speed as soon as you can,” he said.
“I had a strategy and it works. I feel like I’m getting back to my fastest. I’ve had some super fast laps, even on that ice. I’m getting there.”
The new ISU Short Track World Tour format – which has seen races move closer together, time-wise – is another challenge. “It is impacting my legs, I’ve noticed slightly slower starts if I’ve done double 1500m,” said Dubois. “I will have to manage that for the World Champs.
“But eight top twos in a row in the 500m, at the World Tour, I’ve got to be happy with that. A world record would be hard. I need the ice conditions, to be in shape, and maybe I’ll have to drop the 1500m and see some fast ice, if I’m going to get it.”
Pierre-Gilles meanwhile is also improving steadily. “Back-to-back gold and silver medals with Steven is amazing,” he said. “I didn’t do a crazy good 500m at the start of the year, but I am starting to feel like myself now, on my favourite distance. I look forward to more.
“We are so blessed to have such a good level in our country, because it prepares us really well for competition. Training with Steven, the fastest guy in the world, helps me so much. I’m with the best.”
Dandjinou meanwhile isn’t getting distracted by the Crystal Globe being within touching distance.
“The globe is amazing, but let’s keep focusing on the racing,” he said. “We have Milan next week, I will celebrate when it is time.”
Racing in the 2024/25 ISU Short Track World Tour Tilburg Odido Cup continues on Sunday.

ISU Men’s Crystal Globe rankings
William Dandjinou     1012
Jens van ‘t Wout     730
Steven Dubois         608

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union