#ShortTrackSkating

Gong Li, Shaoang Liu, Shaolin Sandor Liu and Yize Zang of People's Republic of China celebrate their mixed relay victory in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
Short Track hasn’t been the same without the Liu brothers.
After a terrific Beijing 2022 Olympic Games – during whichShaoang Liu(CHN) secured Hungary’s first ever individual Winter Olympic gold medal, and his big brotherShaolin Sandor Liu(CHN) pocketed a bronze – Shaoang became overall World Champion.
The duo, who have a Hungarian mother and Chinese father, then opted to transfer teams, necessitating a year out of the sport.
The biggest names in the game were back in Montreal. Wearing the red uniforms of the People's Republic of China, they won their first gold medal for their new nation – in the 2000m mixed relay – receiving an ecstatic reception from the crowd at the Maurice-Richard Arena.
In the individual events, however, Short Track’s traditional powerhouse, the Republic of Korea, dominated.
Hwang Dae Heon(KOR) – also back following a season away from the sport, after failing to qualify for the team in 2022-23 – was triumphant in the 1500m, while last winter’s ISU Crystal Globe winner,Park Ji Won(KOR), won gold in the 1000m (1).
China wins mixed relay gold
After a chaotic race that had to be restarted after a crash, the Chinese mixed relay team stormed to victory, sealing a golden return for the Liu brothers. Republic of Korea finished second, with Italy third.

People's Republic of China finished ahead of the Republic of Korea and Italy in the 2000m mixed relay in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
“It is like we never left,” said Shaolin. “It’s amazing. This was our goal, to have a good result in the first competition, and I’m so happy. Hopefully we are going to get even better in the next competitions.”
The pair have relocated training centers, but being fluent in Mandarin, and having previously trained in Asia, have found the transition seamless.
"The federation has helped us so much and have given us every support. We haven’t had to stress about anything. Moving to China has been smooth.”
The entertainment factor was cranked up to the max.
"The race was a bit crazy, but the outcome was really good,” said Shaolin. “Montreal never disappoints. It was a great crowd. We are here to bring the show and are so happy to compete again.”
Hwang and Park finish on top in individual races
The Lius weren’t the only ones bringing some glamour to Short Track this weekend.
As well as the Chinese supporters, there was a huge Korean contingent in the crowd. One banner read “Hwang Dae Heon – the Greatest of All Time”.

Hwang Dae Heon won gold in the 1500m in Montreal, Canada after missing last season. © ISU
Whether that is true is a debate for the Short Track purists, but Hwang is certainly hall of fame material after winning gold at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games.
Such are the standards in Seoul and beyond, Hwang didn’t qualify for the squad last season.
He seems back with a bang for 2023-24, however, winning a thrilling 1500m final, pipping the powerfulStijn Desmet(BEL) into silver and the ever-improvingReinis Berzins(LAT) into bronze.
“It feels really good to be back and to win,” said Hwang. “It was great to feel the support from so many people. I am very happy.”
The best of all time, however, will have to battle to be the best racer in the Republic of Korea’s squad this term.
Park took the inaugural ISU Crystal Globe by a distance and is in no mood to relinquish his trophy.
In the 1000m (1) in Montreal, he beat a classy field including local favoriteSteven Dubois(CAN), who finished second, andPietro Sighel(ITA), who was third.

Park Ji Won finished ahead of Canadian favorite Steven Dubois in the 1000m in Montreal, Canada. Pietro Sighel of Italy was third. © ISU
“I love it when the racing is difficult,” said Park. “The field is getting stronger, the Liu brothers are back, and Hwang is back. He is very strong. That just makes it harder, but I am still No. 1. I feel I am still the best.”
The likes of Desmet could only look on, bemused by the stellar, ever-changing Korea squad.
“It is always insane how great Korean skaters are: out of the team, then back in, the level is so high,” said the Belgian. “Hwang is so strong. I was expecting him to come back with a blow. Even in the qualification rounds it is tough now. But that makes it fun and interesting.”

Stijn Desmet and Pietro Sighel compete in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
It certainly does. Expect this battle royale to continue Sunday in Quebec.
For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union