Racing resumed today at the Palaghiaccio Tazzoli rink in Torino, Italy, with more World Cup ranking points up for grabs in the 1000m and Relay events, and very important Olympic Games qualifying rankings to be determined.
Suk-Hee Shim won her third 1000m event of the year, extending her lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. This was yet another all-Korean podium in this distance with her team-mate Alang Kim finishing second and Seung-Hi Park third. Kim led the first half of the race before being passed by Shim with four laps to go. The other skater in the event, Jianrou Li (CHN) received a penalty, for interference towards Park.
In the Men's 1000m final, Charles Hamelin (Canada) took his second win of the weekend, narrowly edging out Victor An of Russia. Vladimir Grigorev (Russia) led the first part of the race, before dropping back to third, where he ultimately finished. Olivier Jean of Canada was fourth, moving him into third place overall in the World Cup ranking. The win allows Hamelin to maintain his lead in the World Cup ranking for the distance, while An moves into second place overall.
The weekend concluded with the Relay events, with four teams at the start line for the Ladies' 3000m Relay final and five teams in the Men's 5000m Relay final. For the third consecutive event, the same four teams were at the start line for the Ladies' Relay. Korea took its third win of the season, and extended its lead in the World Cup ranking. Second and third place were determined by less than half a second, with China edging out Italy; Canada was fourth. While Korea and China continue to sit in first and second place in the World Cup ranking, this weekend's podium finish allows Italy to move into third. This was a great way for the Italian team to conclude their weekend racing in front of a home crowd.
The Men's 5000m Relay final was certain to be highly contested, with five teams at the start line. The teams from Canada, the Netherlands and Russia exchanged the lead several times throughout the race, before Canada took control with six laps to go to take the win. Russia came in a close second with the Netherlands finishing in third place. The win puts Canada ahead of the United States in the World Cup ranking for the distance; the United States hangs on to second place overall with a fifth-place finish this weekend.
The skaters will now travel to Kolomna, Russia, for the fourth and final stop of the 2013-14 Samsung ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating series. This event, which runs from November 14 to 17, will serve as the second and final2014 Olympic Winter Games Qualifying competition.For full results please clickhere

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union