#ShortTrackWorldTour
Courtney Saraultof the Canadian Ice Maples made an emotional comeback to the top of a Short Track podium in Tilburg on Sunday – winning gold in the 1500m to end a hellish run of poor health and fitness, while her teammateFlorence Brunellewon her first gold at this level with a lightning-quick performance in the 500m.

Courtney Sarault (CAN) wins the 1500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour Odido Cup, in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
It was an impeccable day for Canada’s women at the 2024/25 ISU Short Track World Tour Tilburg Odido Cup, but a quiet one for the contenders in the ISU Crystal Globe.
Kristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles took bronze in the 500m, whileCorinne Stoddardalso of the USA Eagles, took third in the 1500m.Xandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions didn’t race the 500m, andHanne Desmetof the Belgian Ice Bears was penalised in a 1500m final she thought she had won.
You suspect the happiest people this weekend will beChoi MinjeongandKim Gilliof the Korean White Tigers.
Both missed the event to compete at the Asian Games, and could have seen their chances of ISU Crystal Globe glory seriously diminished if one rival had had a heavy-scoring weekend here.
Instead, they will return to the Short Track World Tour in Milan next weekend for the concluding event, and are still in contention for the coveted glassware.

“I’ve been through the mill”: Sarault bounces back
The 1500m was a fascinating race with a strong A final line up – butHanne Desmethas been queen of this distance this season, and it looked like she had chalked up another victory to go with her 1000m triumph on Saturday in Tilburg.
Desmet moved to the front mid race and opened up a major gap to cross the line first. Yet she was adjudged to have impededArianna Fontanaof the Italian Gladiators, and penalised.
It meant Sarault, who had bounded over the line in second place, was promoted to gold, and ever-improving Italian GladiatorElisa Confortolatook the bronze, her debut ISU World Tour podium.

Courtney Sarault (CAN) leading Elisa Confortola (ITA) and Corinne Stoddard and Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) in the Women’s 1500m in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
For Sarault, it was a huge moment. “My God, I’ve been through the mill, I didn’t have a good year,” she said. “I was dealing with health issues.
“There was a lot of stuff going on. Not feeling good, training too hard, getting in a bad cycle. Not getting enough rest, not sleeping, then that led to hormone imbalances. High cortisol, then stressing because I’m not sleeping, then gaining weight.
“I was getting no results. You need to be a little more lean in our sport, and that turned into a cycle, it got worse and worse. It was tough, emotional, and nobody knows what’s going on. You deal with criticism.”
In the end, Sarault chose to take time out to address her health. “I got testing done, took some of summer off, figured out my hormones, lost the weight,” she said. “I missed a bunch of training, and that was getting in my head.
“But what makes me good is, I just fight. I’m proud of myself for overcoming all that. Getting back stronger, I’m happy to grab some podiums.
“It’s important never to lose that little bit of hope, that little spark, that’s what got me through. This year, with some summer training, I want to be strong again.
“This is such a mental game. If you’re not in it, someone will take it from you. To get a gold today is just a bonus. Gold, silver or bronze would feel like gold at this point.”
Confortola was delighted to be in her company. “It’s a big moment, crazy, I don’t know how to feel,” she said of her silver. “It was fine to just be in the A final and compete with girls like Courtney. To get a silver is amazing. It is something new for me.”

Brunelle buzzing with 500m victory
It’s been a glorious season for Canadian Short Track – but more on the men’s side of the team than the women’s. After Sarault’s gold, however, Brunelle sealed a superb day for the female Ice Maples, powering to victory in a bruising 500m.

Florence Brunelle (CAN) celebrates winning the gold medal in the Women’s 500m Final in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
All six racers had been in contention, but Brunelle had the speed to just see off the ever-improvingMichelle Velzeboer(NED), who grabbed her second individual podium at this level. Santos-Griswold (USA) came third.
“This means so much, we work hard every day for these moments,” said Brunelle. “All my dedication went into this. I’m really happy.
“I felt there was a buildup to getting a gold. I’ve had two silvers, so it was in my mind that I was able to do this. I’ve had a tough month, I’ve been sick and had a concussion. So I didn’t know if it was time.
“I love to work hard. I love to put my mind into this, into what I love the most. I have to learn to let go sometime. Courtney is like that too, and she has taken advantage today.”

Florence Brunelle (CAN) leads the charge in the Women’s 500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour Odido Cup, in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
Velzeboer’s moment was similarly impactful. “It means so much, this medal,” she said. “It has been some time since my last medal, and also the level has got higher.
“This has shown that I’m getting so much stronger. I already felt that this season, but it hadn’t turned into results yet. Last summer I got stronger and, combined with my technique, that helped.
“I noticed last summer that I can skate a lot better with my sister [Xandra] because before, she was too fast sometimes. Now we are so much closer, that makes our training effective.”
The weekend’s results mean Santos-Griswold lies top of the point standings, just 28 points ahead of teammate Stoddard. She is just two points clear of Xandra Velzeboer in third; Desmet, Kim and Choi remain in contention for the title.

(L-R) Corinne Stoddard (USA) with the bronze medal, Courtney Sarault (CAN) with gold and Elisa Confortola (ITA) with the silver in the Women’s 1500m in Tilburg (NED) © ISU
It’s a sign of Stoddard’s progress that she was cursing not taking advantage today.
“I was way too patient and the other girls were smarter than me, but you always have regret when you feel you could have done more,” she said. “Any of us could have won today.”  It is the same for the ISU Crystal Globe: roll on Milan.

Women’s ISU Crystal Globe standings
Kristen Santos-Griswold 878
Corinne Stoddard 850
Xandra Velzeboer 848

Overall World Tour Classification
Canada 7422
Netherlands 5771
Republic of Korea 5448
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union