#ShortTrackSkating

Courtney Sarault of Canada leads during last season's ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Salt Lake City, USA © ISU
After consecutive weekends of ISU World Cup racing in Montreal, the Short Track roadshow moves to nearby Laval for the ISU Four Continents Championships on 4-5 November.
This is the third edition of the event, which also took place in 2020 and 2023. The two prior installments were heavily dominated by Canada and Republic of Korea – in fact, no other nation’s athlete has won an individual gold medal at these Championships.
This season’s edition looks likely to follow a similar pattern, although the USA has reason to believe it can upset this current duopoly. There will be no qualifying rounds or repêchage in Laval, as action instead goes straight to the quarter- and semi-finals.
Santos-Griswold looks to prevail in North American face-off
With Korea’s key female racer,Kim Gilli(KOR) – currently top of the rankings for theISU Crystal Globe, this year sponsored by Dunamu (read morehere) – not participating, USA’sKristen Santos-Griswold(USA) will see an opportunity to register her country’s first individual title in the Four Continents.

Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) competes at the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montreal, Canada, where she won gold © ISU
Santos-Griswoldhas been in glittering form, taking gold in the 1000m at the season’s opening ISU World Cup in Montreal. She picked up two silvers at last year’s Four Continents, and will be eyeing the next step up on the podium here. The American has a good shot across all three distances.
Most likely to stop her are the home-nation athletes.Courtney Sarault(CAN) hasn’t quite hit her superlative best so far this fall, but will always be a threat in the 1000m and 1500m in particular.
Danae Blais(CAN) andFlorence Brunelle(CAN) have both enjoyed admirable starts to the season, though – and this competition also traditionally gives young Canadians a chance to shine. Look out for speedy 18-year-old Miao Qi (CAN) as she seeks to establish herself in one of the world’s best squads.
Korea meanwhile will rely on some of their finest veterans to maintain their reputation in this meet.
The 30-year-oldLee So Youn(KOR), who won her first ISU World Cup individual gold 11 seasons ago, is enjoying a late career resurgence, whileShim Suk Hee(KOR), the overall World Champion 10 seasons ago, is one of the most decorated skaters in the game – and still has what it takes to dominate.
Elsewhere, the People’s Republic of China, Japan and Kazakhstan’s athletes will attempt to improve on a slow beginning to 2023/24.
Park and Kim face local challenge
The season’s top three skaters so far will face off again in Quebec.
Kim Gun Woo(KOR) has been the surprise of the season so far, staging aremarkable career comeback. The Korean was outstanding back in 2018/19 – he won four ISU World Cup gold medals, and topped the 1500m rankings – but then picked up a suspension, ended up off the team, and didn’t make a podium again.

Kim Gun Woo (KOR) celebrates his 1500m gold medal at the second ISU World Cup Short Track of the season in Montreal, Canada © ISU
Two coolly executed gold medals – one in each weekend of the opening two ISU World Cups in Montreal – have put his name back up in lights. Kim currentlytops the standingsin the Men’s ISU Crystal Globe rankings. Explosively fast and always race-savvy, he will be relishing a shot at a continental title.
His teammate, friend and training partner will be keen to show that he is still Korea’s top dog, however.
Park Ji Won(KOR), the runaway winner of theinaugural ISU Crystal Globe, pocketed two golds at this event last term – in the 1000m and the 1500m.

Park Ji Won (KOR) celebrates victory in the 1000m final at the KB Financial Group ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023 in Seoul, Rep. Korea. © ISU
Park has commenced 2023/24 solidly but has not quite executed his finishes as lethally as a year ago. The ever-improvingJang Sungwoo(KOR) will also be expected to make A finals.
With neitherShaoangnorShaolin Sandor Liu(both CHN), orHwang Dae Heon(KOR), in the field, the most likely disruptors of this potential Korean rule will be the locals.
Steven Dubois(CAN) has felt sharp on home ice over the past fortnight, getting on several podiums without yet managing an individual gold. He admits he isexperimenting with his tacticsin order to improve his all-round skills, and the reigning 500m Four Continents Champion will be a danger this weekend in every distance.
William Dandjinou(CAN) is a truly thrilling prospect for Canadian Short Track fans. As smart as he is powerful, the 22-year-oldrecorded his first individual ISU World Cup goldlast weekend in fine style. The buccaneeringJordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN) also clocked hisdebut individual titleand will be fired up to go again.
Japan will seek to rectify a quiet start to proceedings, withKazuki Yoshinaga(JPN) andShogo Miyata(JPN) their primary hopes.
As for young prospects to watch? The locals are tipping Jérôme Courtemanche (CAN) and William Sohier (CAN) to make some waves. As ever in Short Track – expect the unexpected.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification races on Friday and repechage races (Saturday and Sunday morning), the ISU will offer a live stream with English commentary on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Only for the Friday qualification races and repechage races on Saturday and Sunday morning (local time), no geoblocking will apply.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships events 2023/24:
Nov 4 - 5, 2023ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Laval (CAN)
Jan 12 - 14, 2024ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Feb 22 - 25, 2024ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Mar 15 - 17, 2024ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Rotterdam (NED)
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union