#ShortTrackWorldTour

Hanne Desmet (BEL) won her first gold of the season in a competitive 1500 m final Sunday at the second ISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal © ISU

The quest for the women’sISU Crystal Globeon the newShort Track World Tourwas billed as a thriller – and after two remarkable weekends in Montreal, the reality has lived up to the hype.
On Sunday at the Maurice Richard Arena,Hanne Desmetof the Belgian Ice Bears andXandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions struck gold in the 1500 m and 500 m respectively with some impeccable skating.
ButKristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles – who suffered some poor luck – and the Korean White Tiger pairing ofKim GilliandChoi Min Jeonghad their moments, too. As the event concluded, just 84 points separated those five fierce competitors in the standings.
'There was so much going on': Desmet emerges victor from 1500 m mayhem
So much can happen in a couple of seconds in Short Track. During the final lap of the women’s 1500 m in Montreal, it certainly did; there were events of potentially season-altering consequences in the blink of an eye.
With Desmet, Santos-Griswold, Kim and Choi all jostling for the lead in another stacked A final, two things occurred pretty much at the same time.
Desmet overtook reigning ISU Crystal Globe champion Kim to kickstart her season and win her first gold medal on the Short Track World Tour. Simultaneously, Choi attempted to overtake Santos-Griswold, the two collided, and both were injured.
Kim ended up with silver andCorinne Stoddardof the USA Eagles glided past the casualties to collect bronze.
Kim Gilli (KOR) skates ahead of the group in the 1500 m final Sunday in Montreal © ISU
“There was so much going on," said Desmet. "You need to try and be in the front, and get ahead of it, but even in the front it is a battle ...We have such a strong girls field now, it is awesome to see, but (the Choi collision) is a reminder of the sport being dangerous.I really hate seeing that. I like those girls, I really don’t want to see them get hurt. It sucks. I am glad I wasn’t the cause of it, that is the worst feeling. It’s fun to take risks, but you want everyone to be safe.”
Desmet was happy to emerge with her first win of the season.
"There are so many strong girls now. It is great racing. My first gold of the season feels good. I didn’t have the busiest summer, my boots were broken a lot, so I was kind of getting used to that again."
Santos-Griswold left the rink in pain, while Choi limped to her dressing room. Both emerged later on to race in the 500 m, but were clearly in some distress. Santos-Griswold tumbled again in the 500 m A final.
“That wasn’t the best, all the falls, I am pretty disappointed,” she said. “It hurt pretty bad. I was hurting going into the five (500 m), but I fought hard out there and I’ve got to be proud of myself for that.”
Kristin Santos-Griswold (USA) temporarily holds the lead in the 1500m final ahead of Kim Boutin (CAN) and Corinne Stoddard (USA) © ISU
With competitors able to enter the best 15 races of a possible 18 over the course of the season, Santos-Griswold’s Crystal Globe hopes weren't dented too much.
“This will be my ‘wiped weekend’,” she said. “I am definitely ready for some rest, and then we can get ready for the next rounds.”
"Showtime': Velzeboer wins 500 m again to top standings
Staying somehow unscathed on Sunday wasXandra Velzeboer. The Dutch Lion won two gold medals in the individual races last weekend, and notched yet another 500 m title here. Provided she can get to the first corner first, she is practically unbeatable at present. In Sunday's final, she fought off a challenge from Choi, who took silver, and Kim, who collected bronze.
Xandra Velzeboer (NED) celebrates her win in the 500 m final Sunday in Montreal © ISU
“My start has really improved this year. It’s really consistent and that gives me a lot of confidence at the line,” Velzeboer said. “You feel all these people next to you, but when I get to the first corner I think ‘now let’s go, now it is showtime’.I’m so happy, but really tired. I’m happy to skate these times after two tough weekends. I can still make a lot of speed. It’s great to finish with a win. It’s great to be top (of the standings), but I don’t want to think too much about the results. I’m focusing on the right stuff (and) it’s paying off.”
Velzeboer also finished first in the 1500 m B final, the distance she is least accomplished at, knowing it would add vital points in the Overall Globe mission.
“I want to gain more experience in that distance. In the last two years I’ve raced mainly the 1000 m and 500 m,” she said."That’s where the main focus is, but I like the 1500 m and I’m getting better. I’m not sure I’ll do it every World Tour, it is tough on your body, but I’ll go home and work with what I’ve learned.”
Velzeboer leads the overall rankings with 416 points. Choi is second with 398 and Kim third with 362.Santos-Griswold(338) and Desmet (332) are a whisker behind.
Korea's Choi Min Jeong (left) and Kim Gilli took 500 m silver and bronze Sunday in Montreal © ISU
In the battle for the ISU Team Crystal Globe, Canada leads with 3106 points. Korea (2578) is second and Italy (2145) third.
As Desmet says, the race “is wide open” as the tour moves east. The Asian legs of the ISU Short Track World Tour take place in Beijing, China from Dec. 6-8 and Seoul, Republic of Korea, Dec. 13-15.

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union