Canada'sKim Boutin(500m) and Korea'sLee Yubin(1500m) claimed the two gold medals on offer in Saturday's Women's World Cup races in Dordrecht, denying pre-event favoriteSuzanne Schulting(NED) another golden blitz on home ice.

Kim Boutin (L) celebrates her first World Cup win of the season in Dordrecht © International Skating Union
Schulting came into the meet having won all three individual events at the World Cup event in Debrecen last week, as well as a clean sweep at the 2021 World Championships at this rink. But she ended Saturday with one bronze medal from two finals.
On the back of a third-place finish in the 500m in Debrecen, it was Boutin who took the gold in Dordrecht for her first World Cup win this season, continuing her return to top form after taking a hiatus from the sport earlier this year.

Boutin (C) finished ahead of Arianna Fontana (L) in the Women's 500m © International Skating Union

"I'm pretty happy about the race," Boutin said. "I felt like the speed was there, it's about being calm in front and there was a lot of action (behind her) so it's really nice that I passed that."
Boutin started the final in pole position and led into the first turn ahead of Italy'sArianna Fontanaand Schulting. After being passed by Fontana midway through the race, Boutin reclaimed the lead on the next turn and held her advantage to the finish.


Boutin is back on top of the podium following her hiatus from the sport © International Skating Union

"I knew that it was the right thing to do (allowing Fontana to pass her on the inside) because I was really wide at this point, but I was building speed so I could get back and pass her again," Boutin said.
Schulting moved into second inside Fontana on the penultimate turn but fell rounding the corner and crashed out, allowing Fontana to win silver andElena Seregina(RUS) to take bronze.
"I saw there was a gap and I jumped in the gap, and I think that was an amazing pass," Schulting said.
"And then I also had in mind, because I had a lot of speed, that if I push it through maybe I can pass Kim Boutin. I think I pushed maybe a little bit too early on my left skate and that's why I fell down."


Boutin (C), Fontana (L) and Elena Seregina (R) claimed the medals in the Women's 500m in Dordrecht © International Skating Union

In the 1500m, Schulting appeared set for her third consecutive World Cup victory in the discipline when she took the lead with seven laps to go in the final, maintaining her advantage until the bell.

Lee Yubin won a thrilling Women's 1500m in Dordrecht © International Skating Union
But Lee overtook her on the inside on the penultimate turn and held on to win, while Canada'sCourtney Saraultpassed Schulting from the outside coming out of the final turn to claim silver, leaving the Dutch pre-race favorite with bronze.

It's Lee's second World Cup victory of the season © International Skating Union

"I felt pretty in control when I passed with seven laps remaining, and I think I did a pretty good job," Schulting said. "Only the power in the end was a little bit gone and I was not able to finish it right."
Lee added the victory to her season-opening gold in Beijing and silver in Debrecen to claim the World Cup 1500m season title ahead of Schulting.


The Women's 1500m podium: Lee (C), Sarault (L) and Schulting (R) © International Skating Union

The Dordrecht World Cup concludes on Sunday with the Men's and Women's individual 1000m and Relay finals.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating series consists of four events during 2021/22 and they are all qualifying events for Beijing 2022.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union