#PureAsIce
The first edition of the ISU Pure as Ice 2019/20 campaign kicked off at the ISU World Cup Short Track 1 in the home of the Utah Olympic Oval, Salt Lake City (USA). ISU’s Pure as Ice teamed with theUnited States Anti-Doping Agency(USADA) with the support of theU.S. SpeedskatingOrganizing Committee to deliver the message of Clean Sport to almost 200 Short Track Skaters that arrived to compete in this major Event.
The Pure as Ice campaign started 1 day prior to the qualification rounds at the Skater’s official hotel where an outreach booth was set up with all information related to Clean Sport including but not limited toISU’s e-learningplatform, Pure as Ice, WADA resources, WADA’s Speak Up platform etc. that was displayed and communicated to the young Skaters. All the Skaters received the ISU interactive leaflet - P.L.A.Y (Pocket Learning Anti-Doping & You) that contained important information about Clean Sport along with some relevant FAQ’s that young athletes face on a daily basis in today’s day and age..

Second collaboration with @isuspeedskating. The Pure As Ice anti-doping campaign promotes competing clean. #pureasice #TakeFlight
A post shared byNALZA®(@nalza.us) onOct 31, 2019 at 8:22am PDT
To resonate with the competitive spirit of the Skaters, there were periodic Pure as Ice Kahoot! Quiz which the Skaters participated in with their teammates, friends and fellow competitiors. The Pure as Ice Kahoot! Quiz is an online multiplayer based quiz that is played in real time that the Skaters played with their smartphones alongside their teammates vying for the top spot that would only be achieved by being correct and fast. The Pure as Ice Quiz combined learning and fun as it facilitated awareness for clean sport that was witnessed by the ‘ahhs’, cheers & ‘I thought so!!’,, ‘Oh that’s how it is’animated expressions by the Skaters. The Skaters and their support personnel also enjoyed the WADA Anti-Doping Play True Quiz.
The winners of the ISU Pure as Ice & WADA Play True Quiz were rewarded with cool Pure as Ice goodies namely the sleek and suave Pure as Ice Blade Covers that was specifically curated & designed for this campaign by US based company NALZA. Among the other goodies were dry bags, beanies, buffs, bandanas, wrist bands, luggage tags, stickers etc. The Skaters also had the opportunity to have some fun at the Pure as Ice Photo Boothfor theirInstagram and social media accounts.
All in all the Pure as Ice campaign brought Skaters together that stems from the purpose behind Pure as Ice: to unify Skaters in solidarity for Clean Sport ,that is the #PUREASICE spirit!!

About Pure As Ice
The main axes of CLEAN SPORT are testing, prevention and education.
Doping prevention is very important because it helps skaters to raise their awareness without putting their careers at risk. The ISU Pure as Ice Program is displayed at various ISU Events with the aim to promote Clean Sport.
Skaters and their entourage who visit the Pure As Ice booth at ISU Events get the chance to test their knowledge’s on Anti-Doping, chat with professionals and athletes, have their Pure as Ice picture taken and sign for Clean Sport.
By using the#PUREASICEhashtag, join the Pure as Ice Proud to be a Clean Skater community.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union