The second ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating event of the season took place at the Palaghiaccio, Bormio, Italy, from 14-16 November – with two world records being broken as a new generation of skaters showed their class.
Republic of Korea continue dominance on day one

Victorious: Rim Jongun (KOR) in Bormio, Italy © ISU
Last weekend, at the first Junior World Cup, Korea reigned supreme. It certainly looked like a repeat was on the cards on Friday in Bormio.
Oh Songmi (KOR) – winner of the 1000m (2) last week – took gold in the women’s 1500m with a tactical masterclass worthy of her homeland’s best. Silver was scooped by Kim Minji (KOR), who won this distance at World Cup #1. Li Jinzi (CHN) was pipped into third, the same placing she achieved last week.

It's gold again for Oh Songmi (KOR) in Bormio, Italy © ISU
Korea’s men then doubled down with another 1-2 in the men’s 1500m.Rim Jongun(KOR), double gold medalist last weekend, triumphed in style, putting meters between himself and second-placed Park Seojun (KOR), in a repeat of last week’s result. China were once again third, withZhang Bohaosealing bronze.
Koo Minseung (KOR) scored the third Korean gold of the day in the men’s 500m (1). He eked ahead of Victor Chartrand (CAN).
Peter Groseclose(PHI), meanwhile, made a small piece of history as he sealed the bronze medal – the first for the Philippines at this level of Short Track. The Maryland-based skater has a Filipino mother and hopes to represent the country at the Milano-Cortina 2026 Olympic Winter Games.

History-maker Peter Groseclose (PHI) in Bormio, Italy © ISU
It wasn’t all Korea’s day, though.Berenice Comby(FRA) thundered to victory in the women’s 500m (1), ahead ofLyu Wanyu(CHN) and Lin Jingyi (CHN).
Led by Oh and Rim, Korea then won the 2000m mixed relay, ahead of Japan and France.
In the 1000m qualifiers, meanwhile,Joo Jaehee(KOR) and Luka Jasic (SRB) both skated below the Junior world record for the distance.

Record-breaker Joo Jaehee (KOR) in Bormio, Italy © ISU
Pelletier wows crowd with 500m world record
Korea’s individual gold spree didn’t extend into Saturday. In the women’s 500m Lyu Wanyu (CHN) took gold, withKornelia Wozniak(POL) getting silver and Lin Jingyi (CHN) bronze.
AndYang Jingru(CHN) then added another Chinese gold in the 1000m, prevailing in a great struggle withVictoria Jean-Baptiste(CAN) and Comby, who were second and third respectively.

Yang Jingru (CHN): gold medalist in the women's 1000m in Bormio, Italy © ISU
It was the men’s event that really caught the eye though. Lots of brilliant big-name skaters have contested the 500m at junior level over the years, from Liu Shaoang (CHN) toJ.R Celski(USA).
Both went on to break the junior world record at this distance, and both went on to become podium-topping Olympians.
Note the nameMathieu Pelletier(CAN), then. On Saturday in Bormio he made the record his, clocking an astonishingly fast 40.236 seconds to win gold and set a new benchmark.
Pelletier is already the youngest Canadian male Short Tracker to win a medal at a senior World Cup event – he was 16 when in a team who claimed 2000m mixed relay bronze in Montreal. He is a speedster in theSteven Duboismould.

Remember the name: Mathieu Pelletier (CAN), record-breaker in Bormio, Italy © ISU
He beatKim Minwoo(KOR), who got gold in the 1000m last weekend in Bormio, into second place. Bronze went to Zhang Bohao (CHN).
The men’s 1000m was won by Rim (KOR), capping another individual double-gold weekend for him.Gabriel Jonesof Canada pocketed silver andFuchigami Yuta(JPN) the bronze.
Republic of Korea won the women’s 3000m relay ahead of Hungary and Canada, and the Korean men also won their relay, ahead of Canada and Hungary.
With seven golds, Korea will once again emerge happiest from another weekend of Junior World Cup skating. Rim in particular looks one for the future, but new world record holders Joo and Pelletier will also feel ready to step up to the senior arena.
The next ISU Junior World Cup takes place in Quebec, Canada, from 21-23 February.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union