#ShortTrackSkating

William Dandjinou (CAN) takes the lead in the 1000m final at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
It has been a fascinating contest between Canada and Republic of Korea at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Championships 2024 — as it always seems to be at these meets — and the two nations went at it again in Laval on Sunday.
Up-and-coming racerWilliam Dandjinou(CAN), who honed his craft on this rink as a teenager, won the 1000m, dropping the current 1000m World Champion and ISU Crystal Globe holderPark Ji Won(KOR) into second place. Yui Matsubayashi (JPN) took the bronze.

Yui Matsubayashi (JPN) finished third in the 1000m final at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
Steven Dubois(CAN), who won the 500m on Saturday, crossed the line in first place but was penalised.
Korea struck back in the men’s 5000m Relay, however, winning gold ahead of China, who took silver, and the Canadians, with bronze.

Korea took gold ahead of China, Canada and Kazakhstan in the 5000m Relay at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
Brilliant Dandjinou showing true potential
It’s been a stellar couple of weeks for Dandjinou.
He admitted he has felt like he was on the sidelines of the Canadian squad over recent seasons, while the likes of Dubois andPascal Dion(CAN) have lapped up the acclaim and titles.
But a week ago in Montreal, he garnered his first ever individual ISU World Cup gold medal, putting in a canny tactical performance to take the 1500m.
In Laval, Dandjinou — who grew up idolisingHwang Dae Heon(KOR) — looked every inch the equal of the Koreans.
In the 1000m final, he led the pack at the start and kept the pace high during a chaotic race. Park looked stuck at the back, but with a couple of laps to go turned on his astonishing acceleration.


Park Ji Won (KOR) competes in the 1000m quarter-finals at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
Dubois was able to get past Park and overtake Dandjinou on the last lap, but was adjudged to have committed a penalty. The gold was Dandjinou’s.
“It felt really great, although in a way it feels like a silver medal, because I think my teammate Steven had a great race and deserved the gold, so props to him.
“I still have a lot to learn. But I feel like I am progressing. I feel like I am getting in the Koreans’ heads a little bit [laughs]. But more seriously, I am grateful I am now racing at their level and that I keep improving.
“I want to keep on that path, but I need to work constantly and progress constantly to get to their level. I hope for the best.”
Victory on this ice, in particular, was sweet, he added.
“I came to Laval when I was 14, and they were the club that allowed me to go up a step, and to race properly, so it is special to win here. I am grateful. I have a lot of friends here and my family came, too. I was one of the first skaters to be on this ice when it was built, and it feels like home.”
Dubois salutes teammate
Dubois was disappointed with the penalty that denied him a second gold of the weekend, but he was satisfied with his performances overall.
“I’ve been showing for these past few weeks that I am consistent in every distance. I’ve been feeling good.”

Steven Dubois (CAN) was penalised after crossing the finish line first in the 1000m at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
He also knows that in Dandjinou, there is another hugely talented skater on the men’s scene.
“William really showed up this year. We always knew the potential he had, the talent he had, but he has just shown up. He is deserving the results that he’s getting.
“He showed at the Canadian nationals and then the World Cup what he can do. He is super strong physically and he’s just got all the qualities you need to be a great skater.”
The feeling is mutual, Dandjinou said.
“I hate racing against Steven because he is so strong [laughs]. But more seriously, I am so grateful to have such a great team, and such a great teammate. We have a great energy in the team, I think we have the best team spirit out there. I love them. I’m proud of us.”
Canada won the 2000m mixed relay, with USA second and China third.

Canada finished ahead of USA and China in the 2000m Mixed Relay at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
The Short Track season recommences in just over a month, with the ISU World Cup in Beijing, China from 8-10 December.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification races on Friday and repechage races (Saturday and Sunday morning), the ISU will offer a live stream with English commentary on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Only for the Friday qualification races and repechage races on Saturday and Sunday morning (local time), no geoblocking will apply.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships events 2023/24:
Nov 4 - 5, 2023ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Laval (CAN)
Jan 12 - 14, 2024ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Feb 22 - 25, 2024ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Mar 15 - 17, 2024ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Rotterdam (NED)
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union