#ShortTrackWorldTour

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) edged Kristen Santos-Griswold for gold in the 500 m final Sunday in Montreal for her third title of the weekend © ISU

It’s hard to think of a time when women’s Short Track was as wide open as it is right now. While much of the past decade has been bossed by powerful individuals likeChoi Min Jeong(KOR) andSuzanne Schulting(NED), every race of theISU Short Track World Tourdebut event at the Maurice Richard Arena in Montreal was remarkably close.
The five key contenders,Xandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions,Kristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles,Hanne Desmetof the Belgian Ice Bears,Kim Gilliof the Korean White Tigers and her legendary teammate Choi all battled it out in fine style on Sunday – with Velzeboer eventually emerging, narrowly, as the star performer of the weekend.
She added the 500 m title – her favorite distance — to the 1000 m she won yesterday, and was part of the Mixed Relay gold-medal winning side, too. Kim, meanwhile, was at her lethal best in the 1500 m.'It so difficult to find space to pass': Kim claws to victory for White Tigers
The 1500 m was the perfect showcase of the depth of this season’s women’s field: the lead changed regularly between Desmet and Santos-Griswold, before Kim hit the front with five laps to go.

What followed was a masterful display of blocking and speed, as the Korean White Tiger foiled Desmet’s attempts to make a trademark late pass. The Belgian took silver and Choi snuck in for bronze, with Santos-Griswold fourth.

Kim Gilli (KOR) crosses the line ahead of Hanne Desmet (BEL) and Choi Min Jeong (KOR) to win 1500 m gold © ISU

“It was a very tough race and I am extremely happy to win it,”said Kim.“It is my first World Tour gold, for this new tour, so that is exciting. I feel strong and feel like I can get stronger.I had a good summer of training. We went to Italy for a camp and it has helped me improve. I worked very hard with Min Jeong in training, and we make each other better skaters.”

Desmet feels similar.

“It was so difficult finding space to pass in that race, there was a lot of movement the whole time. It was definitely tough, but I did a good race technically.I have come back to the tour feeling fit. I have been in Montreal all summer and it’s been really nice,"she said.“It’s the same girls battling it out as last year, and we’ve got Choi back as well. That makes it more tough. There will be more of us going for top spot. It’s great to see Choi back, because she is a really great skater.”

Choi was content with her return.

“I feel good to be back on the podium for the first time in a long time, but I can show better performances,”she said.“Gilli is a really good racer. She is young and has a lot to learn, but she grows with this team.”


Korean teammates Choi Min Jeong and Kim Gilli congratulate each other after the 1500 m final Sunday in Montreal © ISU

Velzeboer maintains grip on 500 m … just

Velzeboer has proved near-unbeatable over 500 m over recent seasons. She is twice World Champion in the distance and the world record holder, but it is never easy.

In Montreal, the Dutch Lion went out at a staggering speed, but Santos-Griswold — who is adept over all three distances — managed to reel her in, lap by lap, and force a photo finish.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) edged out Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) and Hanne Desmet (BEL) to win 500 m gold Sunday in Montreal© ISU

The Lion won by an outstretched toe, two-10ths of a second ahead, with the USA Eagle second and the consistent Desmet third.

“I’m really happy I won again,”said Velzeboer.“I’m happy with the time I skated, I led the whole race. To skate that pace after doing so many other races, for the final you have to forget you are so tired. I felt focused and got to the front; it gives me confidence to go fast from the start.At the finish I thought, oh my God, I hope I’m still first.”

Velzeboer also played a crucial role as the Dutch Lions won the Mixed Relay.

“We really got into it, skating better each round,”she said.“It’s cool to get lots of points for the Dutch Lions, andJens (van 't Wout)has been doing really well for the men, too.I hope to be very consistent this season. I have a chance (in theCrystal Globe), but everyone is so good, and the level is increasing all the time. Everyone is skating so fast. The times we are skating are crazy. It’s cool to be a part of it, and it’s also great fun.”

Santos-Griswold also enjoyed the 500 m.

“Xandra went out really quick. I’m not typically the best starter, so I just tried to maintain my pace and try to time it right, and it was really close,”she said.“Ultimately, she was just a little bit too fast, but it’s going to be a really exciting season. In previous years, there has been less depth with the girls’ racing. With the guys it would be a different person on top of the podium each time. I think it will be cool to see that on the girls’ side more now, too.”


Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) says she's looking forward to a competitive season of women's Short Track© ISU

The Canada Ice Maples top the current standings for the ISU Team Crystal Globe, with 1434 points, ahead of the Korean White Tigers (1324) and Dutch Lions (1217).

The second round of the ISU Short Track World Tour takes place Nov. 1-3 at the Maurice Richard Arena in Montreal.

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union