TheISU European Short Track Championshipstake place at the JOYNET Arena, Dresden (GER) from January 17-19 – and much like in recent seasons, it will be the Netherlands who start as favorites for most of the medals.
Xandra Velzeboer(NED), pictured, is currently flying on the ISU Short Track World Tour. She lies second in the battle for the women’s Crystal Globe by the narrowest of margins, and the sprint specialist has proven big-stage pedigree.
In the men’s racing, Velzeboer's compatriotJens van ’t Woutis also in sparkling form – but he will face tight competition fromPietro Sighel(ITA), who loves this event and who won all three individual titles last season in Gdansk (POL).

Jens van 't Wout (NED) leads Pietro Sighel (ITA) at the 2023 European Championships in Gdansk. The two will battle it out again in Dresden. © ISU
Without the superpowers of Republic of Korea, Canada and China present, the Euros always provides a chance for lesser-known racers to get themselves on to a senior ISU Short Track podium. Who might make a mark this time?
Italy and Netherlands do battle once more
Expect a classic two-way battle between Italy's racers and those from the Netherlands in the women’s racing.
Velzeboer will line up for the 500m and 1000m as favorite. She is the world record holder in the 500m and won the European Championship in the distance last season.
The Dutch rocket has added more endurance to her armoury, too, and started to pick up 1000m golds at World Tour level this season, proving that she’s not just a speed merchant.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED), center, starts as favorite for both the 500m and 1000m after impressing at the Short Track World Tour. © ISU
In the absence ofHanne Desmet(BEL), who has enjoyed great success at recent Euros, and Velzeboer’s compatriotSuzanne Schulting, running off an ankle injury with a spell in long-track, Italian legendArianna Fontanalooks to be Velzeboer’s biggest rival in Dresden.Fontana is the most successful female racer of all time at these championships – she has been overall European Champion seven times and has a total of 24 Euro medals in her trophy cabinet.
Able to win across all three distances, the two-time Olympic 500m gold medalist is as fit and tactically astute as ever.
The only thing that may hold the Italian back is the hard-to-predict impact of her self-proclaimed “crazy” schedule this season.
Fontana is competing in both long track and Short Track, meaning fewer recovery days and more fatigue. It’ll be interesting to see if she can continue to compete at her usual standard.

Arianna Fontana (ITA), left, is Velzeboer's main rival, but expect a strong challenge from Poland's Kamila Stormowska, right. © ISU
Beyond the big two, other Dutch and Italian racers are likely to battle it out for podium places.Selma Poutsma(NED) returns to action after an injury-hampered beginning to the term. On her day, Poutsma is an athlete who can match Velzeboer’s peak velocity in the sprint. Xandra’s sister,Michelle Velzeboer, will also be in the mix.For Italy,Elisa Confortola– the defending European 1500m champion – andGloria Ioriattihave been steadily improving at Short Track World Tour level.Elsewhere, anticipate an Eastern European challenge fromJaszapati Petra(HUN) andKamila Stormowskaof Poland.
Eastern Europeans look to upset the men's order
Italians and Dutch will also be tipped for the top in the men’s racing – but as in recent seasons, there are fewer established racers on the Italian and Dutch men’s teams than in the women’s pack.
Jens van ’t Woutof the Netherlands is currently the man in form. The 23-year-old is a strong a versatile athlete who has a shot at victory in all three distances. He has already won a gold at Short Track World Tour level this season – the 1000m in Montreal (CAN) – and lies third in the overall rankings.
He earned Euros gold in the 1500m two seasons ago in Gdansk and will fancy his chances in Dresden against this field.

In-form skater Jens van 't Wout (NED) has a shot at gold in all three distances but will be wary of the Eastern European challenge. © ISU
Pietro Sighel(ITA) is likely to be his key opponent. Like Van ’t Wout, he is talented across the distances and at last year’s European Championships it all came together perfectly as he stormed to gold in all three disciplines.
Sighel is undoubtedly a ‘big game player’ – he has also won a World Championship (the 500m in 2022/23) – but is somewhat of a curiosity in that he has never topped the podium in a routine Short Track World Tour or World Cup event.
It is perhaps Eastern Europe that offers the most interesting challenge, however.
Roberts Kruzbergsof Latvia andMichal Niewinski(POL) are close friends and training partners who both look on the verge of major breakthroughs in the sport.

Roberts Kruzbergs (LAT) is a regular on the podiums but can he make his major breakthrough at these European Championships? © ISU
Kruzbergs is a canny tactician who has started to make podiums on a regular basis over the last three seasons, including a debut tour win – the 1000m in Montreal in 2022/23. He will be seeking his first podium at a ‘major’ competition here.
Niewinski, meanwhile, is a 21-year-old powerhouse who made his debut podium at the 1000m in Montreal this season. The Pole has all the attributes to pick up medals here.

Michael Niewinski made the 1000m podium in Montreal and much is expected of the 21-year-old Polish skater. © ISU
Beyond them, Dutch stalwartsItzhak De LaatandSjinkie Knegtjoin young gunsFriso EmonsandTeun Boerin a well-rounded squad – they’ve all picked up Euro medals before.
Stijn Desmetof Belgium, the 2023 European Champion in the 1000m, will be looking to kickstart a season that has begun a little slowly, whileNiall Treacyof Great Britain, second in the 1000m last season, will hope to continue his one-man resurrection of a GB team that hasn’t had much success since the days of Elise Christie.
Where to watch
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union