Elise Christie (GBR) and Dajing Wu (CHN) repeat wins in the second 500 m
Elise Christie (GBR) won her second event of the weekend, with back to back wins in the Ladies 500 m final. Once again, she dominated the race leading from start to finish, and crossing the line ahead of Arianna Fontana (ITA). Third place finisher was Natalia Maliszewska (POL), winning her second career World Cup individual medal. Evgeniya Zakharova (RUS) finished in fourth place. The win allows Christie to extend her lead in the World Cup classification for the distance.
On the Men’s side, Dajing Wu (CHN) added to his win the previous day with another gold medal in the second 500 m final. He too led the race from start to finish, crossing the line ahead of Shaolin Sandor Liu (HUN). Sjinkie Knegt (NED) took the last podium place, finishing ahead of Semen Elistratov (RUS). The win allows Wu to move into the lead of the World Cup rankings for the distance, ahead of Abzal Azhgaliyev (KAZ).
Four medals for the Korea in the Ladies and Men’s 1000 m event
Korean skaters Min Jeong Choi and Ji Yoo Kim finished first and second respectively in the Ladies 1000 m event. The pair of Korean skaters finished ahead of a pair of Canadian skaters, with Marianne St-Gelais taking the third and final podium spot, ahead of her teammate Valerie Maltais. Choi’s win now puts her in the lead of the World Cup classification for the distance.
On the Men’s side, Shaoang Liu (HUN) had a strong race, leading all but the first lap to take the win in the 1000 m final. Close behind, were a pair of Korean skaters: Kyoung Won Lim (second) and Seung Soo Han (third). Liu’s teammate, Viktor Knoch, finished in fourth place while Hongzhi Xu (CHN) finished fifth. Lim maintains his lead in the World Cup ranking for the distance.
Korea (Ladies) and China (Men) take gold in the Relay events
The Korean women’s relay team won a third relay final in as many World Cup events. The team finished ahead of Canada while Netherlands finished in third place. In the event, China was handed a penalty for a consecutive World Cup relay final. Korea further extends its lead in the World Cup classification for the distance.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was closely contested with the top three teams crossing the finish line separated by less than half a second. China edged out the Netherlands for the win. Korea finished in third place, while Hungary was fourth. The Netherlands maintains its lead the World Cup rankings for the distance.
For full results of the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2016/17 please refer tohttp://shorttrack.sportresult.com/and/en/speed-skating/series/isu-world-cup-speed-skating
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series resumes next month in Gangneung (KOR) on December 16-18, 2016.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union