
Seventeen-year-old Rim Jongun of the Korean White Tigers celebrates the first win of his ISU Short Track World Tour career Saturday in Montreal  © ISU
The opening weekend of the regular season often brings surprise results, but few athletes can point to a senior debut as impressive as that ofRim Jongunof the Korean White Tigers.
The 17-year-old high school student won gold in the 1500m on the opening day of the ISU Short Track World Tour at Maurice Richard Arena in Montreal on Saturday, announcing the arrival of a major new talent.
Elsewhere, the crowd had plenty to cheer about as local hero and reigning ISU Crystal Globe championWilliam Dandjinouof the Canadian Ice Maples scored a decisive victory in the 500m, signalling he will be the man to beat again during the Olympic season.
WithHwang Daeheonof the Korean White Tigers grabbing an impressive silver in the 1500m, however, Canada will have to deal with a strong challenge from Asia's powerhouse nation this term.
Champion Dandjinou starts in style
The Canadian Ice Maples dominated 2024/25 – especially in Montreal.  In the 500m on Saturday, with three Canadians and two Italians lining up, it looked like they might score a rare podium sweep.
Dandjinou has looked focused from the start of this meeting, and in the 500m final he hit the front early and couldn’t be caught.

Reigning ISU Crystal Globe winner William Dandjinou (CAN) picked up his first win of the season Saturday in the 500m race  © ISU
Pietro Sighelof the Italian Gladiators had a valiant go, but was unable to find the speed or angle to pass.Steven Duboisof the Ice Maples looked sharp as he returned from injury to finish third.
Maxime Laounfaded a little to prevent the home nation from getting a 1-2-3.
“I’m super happy with the (500). You never know how a season is going to start, so being able to start on top is great,”said Dandjinou.“Seeing where everyone is at is cool. The field is amazing. Sharing the podium with Steven is great.”
Dandjinou is taking nothing for granted, however, and a fall in the 1500m semifinal reminded him of the randomness of this sport.
“Maybe I was out of focus for a moment, maybe something on my blades. I can’t blame anyone else but myself,”he said.“Short track is so much chaos I don’t worry myself about anything. I’m enjoying myself.”
Sighel was also content with a solid start to his campaign.

Pietro Sighel (ITA) attempts to catch William Dandjinou (CAN) during the 500m final Saturday in Montreal  © ISU
“It was really good, a really fun race, with the best skaters in the 500m,”he said.“It was really close. I tried to fight, but this is short track. A second place at the start of the season is a nice start. It is hard racing so many Canadians in Canada, but I don’t think about Canada, China, whatever. In this race, I felt good.”
Dubois, meanwhile, is not far off his lethal best.
“My injury held up super well,”he said.“I went all out and it went super fast. I’m not feeling sore, so that’s a huge mental boost in confidence for what’s coming next. I’m feeling better as the races go by. I’m super hyped now.”

Steven Dubois finished third Saturday in the 500m final at theISU Short Track World Tour season-opening event in Montreal© ISU
Dubois also predicts Laoun, who scored excellent results in the recent trials, will make podiums this year.
“We have a board of one-lap times we do every week, and the fastest guy gets a light sabre,”he said.“Maxime has the light sabre. He beat us the whole year. We had to do a reset at the trials because he was so far ahead, so it’s not surprising to see him in finals. He is going to be dangerous.”
Rim destroys field in 1500m on senior debut
There has been a buzz about Rim among those who watch junior skating for a while – and the high schooler confirmed his readiness for the senior scene at the Korean Olympic trials in April: Rim finished first overall, ahead of Hwang. Previous ISU Crystal Globe winnerPark Ji Wondid not even make the squad.
The potential was there – but Rim’s nerveless performance in the 1500m was still remarkable. In a high-class field he turned on the burners with a couple of laps to go, and put metres of fresh air between himself and Beijing 2022 Olympic champion Hwang, who was second.

Rim Jongun (KOR) finished meters ahead of his competitors in the 1500m final Saturdayin Montreal© ISU
“I am so happy. I can’t believe I now have a gold medal,”he said.“Making the move up from the juniors to the seniors is difficult. I am at high school. I’m studying English and math. It is hard to get into the Korea team. We are a whole new team. We have changed so many members. The senior level is hard, so I am happy I have won.”
He said his teammate helped prepare him for the race.
“Hwang is a very good player and he helped to tell me how to play this race. He said that I can play the senior game. He said ‘you can do it’,”Rim said.“I like the ice here in Montreal and my conditioning is very good. Canada is wonderful, I love it.”
Hwang could only look on in awe.

Hwang Daeheon, Rim Jongun and Long Sun (left to right) after the 1500m final at theISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal© ISU
“He is a very good player,”said the veteran.“I am happy with my medal today, and happy that we could both get on the podium.”
Dandjinou – a keen student of the sport who watched the Korean trials online – agrees.
“Rim is amazing, I wish I could skate as smooth as him. I’m excited to race against him, maybe tomorrow. It’s very inspiring to see. It inspires me to get out of my comfort zone. I watched him last year in the juniors, and I thought if he qualifies, he’s going to be a menace. I’m not surprised he’s good, but he’s better than I thought he would be, so props to him.”
Sun Longof the Chinese Loongs took third.

Sun Long (CHN) was third Saturday in the 1500m final at theISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal© ISU
The racing continues on Sunday in Montreal, with the men competing in the 1000m, Mixed Relay and Men’s 5000m Relay.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union