#ShortTrackWorldTour

William Dandjinou (CAN) won 500 m and 1500 m gold Saturday in Montreal © ISU
The first edition of theISU Short Track World Tourgot underway in Montreal on Saturday and the action more than lived up to the hype, with local heroWilliam Dandjinouof the Canadian Ice Maples sending the Maurice Richard Arena wild, grabbing gold in both the 1500 m and 500 m.

Dandjinou prevailed in a photo finish in the longer race, showing his tactical excellence throughout, before demonstrating raw speed to win the sprint.

'First and foremost we are allies': Teamwork key for brilliant Canadians

The Canadian Ice Maples have promised to "stand tall, skate fast" this term, and few epitomise the catchphrase as effectively as Dandjinou, who is 6-foot-2 but can move through the field in a tight tuck effortlessly as well as anyone.

The rangy Canadian edged the reigningISU Crystal Globeholder,Park Ji Wonof the Korean White Tigers, by a mere 0.009 seconds to win 1500 m gold in a photo finish.
Park Ji Won (KOR) held an early lead in the 1500 m final before finishing second in a photo finish Saturday in Montreal © ISU
Dandjinou made a smooth late pass then turned on the burners. He stuttered on the final corner, but held off the Korean ace. Park took silver andSteven Dubois, also of the Canadian Ice Maples, took bronze.
Dandjinou then added 500 m gold, leading from the start to fend off a late challenge from Dubois, withLin Xiaojunof the Chinese Loongs finishing third.
Lin Xiaojun (CHN) took 1500 m bronze Saturday in Montreal at the first event of the ISU World Short Track Tour  © ISU
It marks extraordinary progress for Dandjinou, who won his first individual World Cup gold medals last season after years on the fringes of the Canadian team.
“I’d like to thank my family, teammates and sponsors that help me every day,”he said.“It feels really great, especially in Montreal in front of my home crowd. My family and friends are here. It feels like a blessing.
"I knew last season that I got a step up from where I was before, but I knew that it was not enough. I was super satisfied with my 1000 m World Championship title, but I felt like something was still missing. I did a good race, but it was not the perfect one.I thought that if I wanted to be more consistent, I needed to work especially on my top end speed, which I did. I feel like I am starting to be able to compete over every distance now. I am enjoying the team element of it all. We work amazingly together.”
Teammates hail Dandjinou

The double gold medallist’s compatriots were certainly impressed. Dubois, who finished second overall last season and a whisker away from winning the ISU Crystal Globe, was pleased with his two medals on the day but equally delighted for his teammate.


Steven Dubois (CAN) chases his teammate William Dandjinou in the 500 m final Saturday in Montreal © ISU
“I feel very good, they were clean races,”said Dubois.“I had to make on-the-spot decisions and I’m incredibly happy with how I raced. We worked so hard this summer and I think it shows. It feels nice.The last years, we really focused on tactical training, passing. Now we’ve really put the hammer in the physical work, and we feel so strong. All these tactical trainings really show, and I’m going to be confident this year.
“William was really, really good. In the 15, it was meant to be. You may have seen us do a coin flip gesture before the (500 m) race. We have fought each other in the past, but that wasn’t really necessary. We raced together, we worked together, we are there to win together.There is a lot of communication. First and foremost, we are allies and teammates. We need each other for training. We try to give each other good tips and communicate. Now there’s a team ISU Crystal Globe, too. I like that. We are all really close.”
Both men seem certain to be in the running for the ISU Crystal Globe this season. Canadian legendKim Boutinhas seen it unfold impressively during training.
“It is very interesting to watch this group of guys, they challenge each other every week,”she said.“I feel like William is getting real consistency, the way he works, the way he approaches things. At that level, every practice needs to make you improve.”
The scary thing for the rest of the world? Sunday's 1000 m race is possibly Dandjinou’s best distance.
“The job is not done. I still have to do the relays and the 1000 m,”he said.
Racing continues on Sunday with the women’s 500 m, women’s 1500 m, men’s 1000 m, mixed team relay and men’s 5000 m relay at the Maurice Richard Arena.

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union