Korea'sChoi Minjeongupset hot favoriteSuzanne Schulting(NED) to claim a Women’s 1000m victory in the final World Cup event of the season in Dordrecht. Choi, the Olympic 1500m Champion, went one better than her 1000m silver in Debrecen and left Schulting to settle for third.


Choi Minjeong pulled off a surprise victory in the Women's 1500m at the Dordrecht World Cup  © International Skating Union

In a back-and-forth race that featured lead changes on virtually every turn, CanadiansKim BoutinandCourtney Saraultskated together from the front in the early stages as Choi kept in touch.
Late in the race, Choi mastered the frenetic pace, working her way to the front and holding on to win, with Boutin adding silver to Saturday's 500m gold.


Choi snatched the lead late on to finish ahead of Canada's Kim Boutin  © International Skating Union

"She (Choi) did a great job and she was in the right place at the right moment," Schulting said.
Poland'sNatalia Maliszewskapassed Sarault on the inside late in the race and crossed the line in third place, but she was penalized for the maneuver, allowing Olympic and World Champion Schulting to claim bronze.


Suzanne Schulting (L) ended with bronze in the Women's 1500m  © International Skating Union

"It was really tough racing," said Schulting, who conceded she was tired after skating nearly 40 races on consecutive weekends.
"It's not only just the legs but it's also mentally tough because you have to reload yourself every time."


The Women's 1000m medallists Boutin (L), Choi (C) and Schulting (R)  © International Skating Union

The Dutch star bounced back from her individual disappointments, however, to claim double relay gold in the final races on Sunday.


Schulting led Netherlands to victory in the Women's 3000m Relay  © International Skating Union

In the Women's 3000m Relay, Schulting anchored the Netherlands team that took the lead from Canada with 11 laps remaining and were never bested thereafter.
"It was really amazing, I'm really proud of the team," Schulting said.


Netherlands swept to victory after taking the lead with 11 laps to go  © International Skating Union

Canada won silver while Italy were awarded bronze after Korea, who crossed the line third, were penalized.


Netherlands (C), Canada (L) and Italy (R) celebrate on the podium for the Women's 3000m Relay  © International Skating Union

In an exciting Mixed Team Relay final, Netherlands pipped Hungary for gold as Dutch anchorJens van 't Woutcrossed the line 3.5 hundredths of a second ahead ofShaolin Sandor Liu.


Netherlands also claimed Mixed Relay gold in Dordrecht  © International Skating Union

Overall World Cup season Champions China claimed bronze.


Netherlands (C) topped the Mixed Relay podium ahead of Hungary (L) and China (R) © International Skating Union

Dordrecht is the final event in the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating series. It consisted of four events during 2021/22 and they were all qualifying events for Beijing 2022.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union