Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
#ShortTrackSkating

Shin Dong Min (KOR) starts in the Men's 3000m Relay at the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Gdansk, Poland © ISU
The 2024 ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships confirmed two things: first, the future of the sport is in safe hands after skaters from across the globe captivated the crowds in Gdansk, Poland. And second,Shin Dong Min(KOR) andWang Ye(CHN) are gold-minted superstars in waiting.
The duo not only claimed respective Men’s and Women’s 500m and 1000m distance doubles but also grabbed a Relay gold each (Men’s 3000m for Shin and a Mixed Team triumph for Wang).
It was as impressive as it sounds, but they were not the only ones to shine.
Koreans dazzle in Men’s events
Somehow Shin already appears to be a perfect amalgamation of the strength of the recently crowned two-timeISU Crystal Globe winnerPark Ji Won(KOR), and the exceptional technique of fellow multiple senior World Cup winnerKim Gun Woo(KOR).
The 19-year-old’s battles with teammate Rim Jongun (KOR) and exciting USA talent Sean Shuai have lit up the three rounds of the ISU Junior World Cups this season. But on the biggest stage of all, Shin was too good for both.
In the 1000m Shin powered away from Rim, with Han Byeongchan completing a Korean sweep. In the sprint, Shin was far too quick, with Shuai managing to jump between the champion and Rim.
Rim, a four-time Junior World Cup gold medalist this season, did finally get a chance to experience the top step of a Junior World Championship podium when he showed his strength to leave the pack trailing in the 1500m


Rim Jongun (KOR): victorious in the 1500m in Gdansk © ISU
Italy’s exciting young prospectLorenzo Previtalifollowed Rim home to claim the first of two silvers – the other coming in the Mixed Relay – for the hosts of the 2026 Olympic Winter Games. Meanwhile Gabriel Jones, part of Canada’s famed next generation team, snatched bronze ahead ofZhang Tianyi(CHN).
Despite this flurry of cosmopolitan-flavored success, there was no denying the Championships’ top two performing nations in the Men’s 3000m Relay. And once again, Shin crossed the line first, leading Korea to gold ahead of China. A week after their Men’s senior team picked up an encouraging Relay World Cup bronze in Gdansk, Japan’s juniors did likewise.

Team Korea celebrate another triumph in Poland © ISU
Female stars jostle for limelight
Just like Shin on the Men’s side, so Wang bestrode the Women’s events. The 18-year-old has been outstanding on the senior World Cup circuit this season, winning three 500m bronze medals and a silver as well as two Mixed Relay golds, and she brought all of that confidence and experience to the Hala Olivia arena.
Smooth and unflappable, the Chinese skater relegated Korea’s Junior World Cup winners Chung Jaehee and Yu Sumin to silver medals in the 500m and 1000m respectively.

All smiles: Wang Ye (CHN) celebrates her victory in the women's 500m © ISU
Angel Daleman(NED) also shone in her second Junior ISU World Championships of the month. While the Dutch teenager didn’t quite generate the same headlines as she did at the World Junior Speed Skating Championships – where sheclaimed an extraordinary six gold medals– bronze in the 1000m and fifth in the 500m in Gdansk were still mightily impressive results.
While Daleman is already familiar to many,Maja Dora Somodi(HUN) is another skater fans should start watching. The Hungarian was superb in the 1500m final, shutting out fellow regular senior World Cup skaterAlina Azhgaliyeva(KAZ).

1500m flyer: Maja Dora Somodi (HUN) © ISU
Somodi then led Hungary to glory in the Women’s Relay. But the biggest cheers of the Championships were reserved for the bronze medalists, Poland, as the home team took bronze in an excellent event.
For further informationabout the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships,please visit the event webpagehere.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox