#ShortTrackWorldTour

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) reacts after winning 1000 m gold at the inaugural ISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal Saturday © ISU
Last season’s race for theISU Crystal Globewas tightly contested, and as theISU Short Track World Tourlaunched in Montreal on Saturday, there was every suggestion this winter could see even more contenders in the mix.

With big names likeChoi Min Jeongof the Korean White Tigers andKim Boutinof the Canadian Ice Maples returning to the circuit after breaks, the skaters lined up in a field thatKristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles accurately described as “stacked”.

With drama at every turn,Xandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions won a high quality 1000 m final, while the Italian Gladiators prevailed in a chaotic 3000 m Relay final.Velzeboer leads the Dutch Lions pride

The women’s 1000 m final was a showcase for what promises to be an unpredictable season – even by Short Track standards. The standard was so good that last year’s ISU Crystal Globe winner,Kim Gilliof the Korean White Tigers, did not make the A final.

Instead, the four-time overall world champion Choi lined up alongside the three other athletes that had tussled for the title in 2023/24: Velzeboer, Santos-Griswold,Hanne Desmetof the Belgian Ice Bears, and the ever-improvingCorinne Stoddardof the USA Eagles.

The competitors thrashed it out at the front, with Santos-Griswold – the world champion in this distance — leading for much of the race, and Desmet attempting a trademark late pass.

It was the Dutch Lion who instead got ahead with two laps to go, however, just seeing off Santos-Griswold, who took silver, and Stoddard, with bronze.


Xandra Velzeboer (NED) held off Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) and Hanne Desmet (BEL) for 1000 m gold Saturday © ISU

“It feels really great to win the first gold of the season,”said Velzeboer.“It’s the first competition and you don’t really know where you stand compared to the others.I felt tension during the day, but during the final I was trying to rely on my instincts and know that I can race very well. I don’t need to think too much.

“I was really in control. I didn’t know if I’d won after the finish, because it was so close. I am so happy. I had a really good summer of training. I think the new thing of getting points for your team is really cool, too. It feels nice to contribute to that goal.”

Santos-Griswold agreed.

“It was a stacked final,”she said.“My semi was pretty stacked too. I skated from the front, which isn’t typical for me. I was feeling it, but I’m proud of my ability to lead for so many laps and still fight at the end.Xandra raced really well. Hopefully we can get her next time. I’m looking forward to building off last year. The team Crystal Globe is really exciting, as we are making real strides.”

Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) led for much of the 1000 m final before taking silver Saturday in Montreal © ISU

Stoddard was also satisfied.

“It was a really high level of racing. I was feeling it a little bit. I tried to make a move at the end, and it worked out. I’m happy with the bronze for sure.I feel like I am stronger this year, in terms of endurance, so I’m looking forward to the 1500 m races this season.”

Corinne Stoddard (USA) took 1000 m bronze Saturday and said is looking forward to the 1500 m races this season © ISU

Gladiators emerge from battle royale in relay

The women’s 3000 m has been the domain of the Dutch Lions in recent seasons – they are reigning World and Olympic Champions, and world record holders – but in the absence of key team membersSuzanne SchultingandSelma Poutsma, the other teams had a shot in Montreal.

With the Italian Gladiators, Canadian Ice Maples and Korean White Tigers all extremely well co-ordinated, a chaotic contest saw the lead change numerous times.

The home crowd thought the glory was theirs when Kim Boutin crossed the line in first place, but the team was penalized for a foul on the Dutch Lions, promoting the Italian Gladiators to gold. Korea took silver and the Dutch bronze.

It was a huge moment for the young Italian squad.

The Italian Gladiators celebrate victory in the 3000 m relay after Canada was disqualified Saturday in Montreal © ISU

“Getting gold is a feeling I cannot even describe, it is beautiful,”saidGloria Ioriatti.“With these girls we created a really good team. We have bonded, we are friends, so that made it more special. We are super excited.  We are confident and can’t wait for the rest of the season.”

A lack of egos has been crucial to their success, added Ioriatti.

“We don’t have someone who is stronger than anyone else, or a champion, we all need each other to get better,” she said. “We rely on each other a lot, that is the key of our group. We treat each other well.We have a good team, both boys and girls, so I hope we can get a lot of points and show that the Italian Gladiators are here to make it a good year.

“This is my first gold medal. It has already been a pretty good day for me, so this is the cherry on top of the cake. I’ve struggled with relays because I am tiny, I am not so good at the pushing. I worked so hard over the summer for this.”

Racing continues at the Maurice Richard Arena on Sunday with the women’s 500 m, women’s 1500 m, men’s 1000 m, mixed team relay and men’s 5000 m relay.

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union