#ShortTrackSkating

Denis Nikisha(KAZ) gave the home crowd in the Halyk Arena what they craved, the 27-year-old securing 500m silver on the final day of the third ISU World Cup Short Track session of the season in Almaty.
WhileKim Tae Sung(KOR),Park Ji Won(KOR), and Relay teams from Canada and Korea claimed victories, it was Nikisha who not surprisingly pleased the crowd most. A stunning effort placed him just behind sprint specialist Kim, with Nikisha fending offJang Sungwoo(KOR) down the final straight.

The Men's 500m medalists (L-R): Jang Sungwoo (KOR), Kim Tae Sung (KOR) and Denis Nikisha (KAZ) © International Skating Union
“I feel like I’m some sort of hero right now,” Nikisha said.
“The support of the home crowd gave me such a boost. I thought about ways to pass but he (Kim) was just a little bit quicker today.”
“To get silver here is so amazing. This is our home, our ice rink, our people.
“I just want to say one thing: ‘I did my best everyone, I appreciate your support, thank you so much. I love my fans’.”
As the ISU World Cup Short Track circuit returned to Almaty for the first time since the 2018/2019 season, Nikisha admitted he had felt the pressure of competing in front of his home crowd.
“Usually when I go on the ice I just turn off my brain and only think about the race. This time it was different,” he said, having added a sixth World Cup 500m medal to his collection.
“I was a little bit nervous, but it’s so cool to see all the people here supporting us.”

Denis Nikisha (KAZ) in action on home ice in Almaty, Kazakhstan: © International Skating Union
Short Track is still somewhat of a minority sport in Kazakhstan but Nikisha is determined to make more people in his country fall in love with his passion.
“It’s my mission to boost the popularity of Short Track in Kazakhstan. I want all these kids who are here today to understand what I do.
“The sport is already on the up after the Olympic Games in Beijing (2022) but I feel like we can do even more to promote it. I hope this silver medal will encourage the younger generation to go out and enjoy Short Track.”
Park bounces back
Park (KOR) meanwhile bounced back from crashing out of the 1000m A Final on Saturday to lead a Korean one-two in the 1500m (2) on Sunday – earning his third individual World Cup gold of the season.
Park had positioned himself behind the pack for much of the race, alongside his compatriotHong Kyung Hwan. But with eight laps to go, Park, who topped the Men’s 1000m World Cup Classification in both 2019 and 2020, surged forward and did not relinquish his lead.

Park (KOR) on his way to gold in the Men's 1500m (2): © International Skating Union
Hong finished just behind Park to claim silver, withPascal Dion(CAN) taking bronze.
“I’m really happy with gold. It’s great to win again after my crash yesterday,” Park said.
“It (the crash) made me feel a bit sad but now I can smile again. This is Short Track, after all. We all know that anything can happen on the ice. Luckily I was able to stay on my feet this time.”
Hong shared a hug with Park after the medal ceremony.
“It’s always a good feeling to be on the podium with a teammate,” Hong said.
“He (Park) did really well to recover today. It shows how good he is.
“I can also be happy about my own performance of course. It’s a silver medal. Now it’s time to relax a bit and prepare for the next races.”
The 5000m Relay was won by Canada, who matched the achievement of their female teammates by taking gold. The Men clinched top spot by narrowly beating the Republic of Korea. Japan came third.

Team Canada celebrates victory in the Men's 5000m Relay © International Skating Union
Rep. Korea won the 2000m Mixed Relay, beating silver medalists China, and Belgium, who claimed bronze.
The ISU World Cup circuit stays in Almaty for the second installment of an Asian double-header. Competition continues next weekend, 16-18 December, in Kazakhstan’s former capital.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relaywcst
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED
About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union