#ShortTrackSkating

Yaroslav Morozov (UKR) competing during the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2022 in Gdansk (POL) ©Lukasz Szelag/PZLS
Two Ukrainian skaters will compete at the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2022 in Gdansk this weekend after a dramatic escape from the Russian invasion.
Kseniya Adamenko and Yaroslav Morozov were in Kharkiv, Ukraine for the national championships last week when the city came under attack.
Aleksandr Mikluha, a Ukrainian coach of the Slovakia Short Track team, who has been assisting the athletes since their arrival in Poland, tells their story.

Coach Aleksandr Mikluha (SVK) posing during the ISU World JuniorShort Track Speed SkatingChampionships 2022 in Gdansk (POL)©Lukasz Szelag/PZLS
“As a Ukrainian from Kiev, I wanted to help them,” he said. “The championships were supposed to be starting on 24 February in Kharkiv, but they didn’t start because the Russians started shooting.
“The athletes from Ukraine tried to escape the city, they tried to find a car at 5am. A lot of hours were spent in traffic jams.
“Some of the athletes had to stay in city, as it was impossible to get out. Only these two sportspeople reached Gdansk.
Une publication partagée par Yaroslav Morozov 17 y.o. (@yaroslav_morozov21)
“It took them three days to get here, and it was very hard. I am very glad they reached the tournament and can show what they can do.”

Yaroslav Morozov (UKR) competing during the ISU World JuniorShort Track Speed SkatingChampionships 2022 in Gdansk (POL)©Lukasz Szelag/PZLS
Other Ukrainian skaters are currently still in Kharkiv, while some are attempting to escape the invasion through the west of Ukraine, said Mikluha.
He is trying to help the junior pair mentally as the championship gets underway. “I tried to talk to the two athletes and help them focus on sport, but it is very hard for them. She [Kseniya] was crying and very upset. She is worried and afraid about family in Kiev.”
“We are working with the two athletes, trying to convince them to start. They are in a bad physical shape, but they want to show that they are still fighting, that Ukraine will exist in the future, and to show the Ukrainian flag.”

Yaroslav Morozov (UKR) posing with the Ukranian flag during the ISU World JuniorShort Track Speed SkatingChampionships 2022 in Gdansk (POL)©Lukasz Szelag/PZLS
Mikluha said that he has been trying to speak to colleagues and friends in Russia, but was worried about what they might have to say.
“I am happy that the ISU took the decision to proceed without the athletes from Russia and Belarus,” he said.
“I am in contact with skaters from Kharkiv, and some have escaped to another city, while others have reached the Polish border and are safe. Many are going to Lviv [in western Ukraine] and trying to get to Poland.”
Mikluha added that the Polish Skate Federation have been supportive. “They care about this Ukrainian guy and girl,” he said. “They have said they can stay in Poland, that they can go to university in Poland.”
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union