Racing resumed today at the crowded Mokdong ice rink in Seoul, Korea, as more points were up for grabs towards the World Cup ranking in the 1000m and Relay events.
Suk Hee Shim extended her lead in the World Cup classification in the 1000m distance by earning the top spot of an all-Korean podium in today's Ladies' 1000m final. This was Shim's second consecutive win in as many weekends. The fans roared when the trio of Shim (first), Seung-Hi Park (second) and Alang Kim (third) crossed the line, having dominated the race. With five skaters at the start line, Jorien Ter Mors (NED) went into an early lead until Shim took over with five laps to go At that point, the Korean skaters picked up the pace and that is when Park and Kim moved into podium positions.
In the Men's 1000m final, Dajing Wu (CHN) dominated the race from start to finish, earning his second podium finish of the weekend. Meanwhile, throughout the race Olivier Jean (CAN), Victor An (RUS) and Se Yeong Park (KOR) took turns being in second place, jostling for position throughout the race. In the end, it was An who finished second, with Park in third place. The win allowed Wu to close the gap on the World Cup distance leader Charles Hamelin (CAN); Hamelin was sixth overall this weekend over the distance.
With the individual events over, it was time for the Relay events, to conclude the weekend. In the Ladies' 3000m Relay final, the same four teams as last weekend's final were back at the start line: Korea, China, Canada and Italy. While all four teams were close together throughout, it was Korea who led the bulk of the race to finish first just ahead of China. The team from Canada finished in third place, narrowly edging out Italy. The win is Korea's second in as many events, thus extending their lead in the World Cup ranking for the distance.
The Men's 5000m Relay final was marked by several lead changes, with the final and winning change occurring with five laps to go. That is when Canada took the lead from Great Britain to eventually win the race. The team from Great Britain was unable to hold on to second place, as the United States made a pass on the last lap, leaving the British team to finish the race in third. The second-place finish allows the United States to hang on to the World Cup lead for the distance.
The skaters will now take a break from racing, and prepare for the upcoming stops of the Samsung ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating events in November. These events will also serve as Olympic qualifiers, with the first one being in Turin, Italy, from November 7-10.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union