#OneHandDown#ShortTrackSkating

2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Boots, crash pads and artery-protecting Kevlar: Short Track equipment has been vital in making the sport faster, more exciting and safer. Former Olympic Champion and Technical Committee Chair Nathalie Lambert talks us through it…

2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Short Track may be one of the winter sports requiring the least amount of gear – there are no worries about paying haulage for a bobsled or struggling through airports with massive snowboards – but equipment is still a vital factor when it comes to achieving maximum velocity. From blades to suits, training systems to safety pads, the stuff it takes to be a Short Track racer has evolved significantly since the ISU organized its first Short Track event back in the 1970s.

2015©International Skating Union (ISU)
Central to this, of course, is the boot itself. “Skates have changed hugely from when I started,” says Nathalie Lambert, who competed throughout the 1980s and 1990s (winning a Winter Olympic gold and two silvers, as well as three overall World Championships), and who is now the Chair of the ISU Short Track Speed Skating Technical Committee.
“The biggest change came during my career. We started with heavy leather boots – and blades that were fixed to the base. You could not really play with them.

2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
“But around the early ’80s, a guy from Quebec called Raymond Laberge invented moulded boots with the blades offset. He moved them to the left, which meant you could suddenly lean more into the corners, without your boot touching the ice. It revolutionized Short Track. With the old ones, you couldn’t gather much speed in the corners.

2016©International Skating Union (ISU)
“The new boots were also moulded to your feet with fiberglass, which meant they were harder and stiffer, and gave you way more control. You had better grip and could use your strength in the corner because your ankle doesn’t bend – you’re pushing straight with the leg.”
Laberge’s eureka moment – a couple of millimeters’ difference of a blade in a tube – was the biggest single step forward for the sport. By 1993 he was joking that he was guaranteed to win a medal at the World Championships – not because he was competing but because “all the skaters are wearing my boots.” In a sport won and lost on the turns, you couldn’t afford to be without them.

Summer Kikuchi (JPN) prepares during the ISU Short Tack World Cup in Almaty (KAZ) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Since then, boot designs have remained largely the same – but racers still tinker to try to make marginal gains. “Now, the blades are a little longer, a little thinner, they’ve changed the rocker on it a little bit,” says Nathalie. “The mechanism has also become more sophisticated.
“And you have blade specialists traveling with teams. Racers have more than one pair of blades and can switch in a few seconds when needed. The specialists reproduce perfectly the bend and rocker on the duplicates, and have machines to copy them.”
It’s something that athletes are constantly experimenting with to see what works best. “For this season, I’ve changed boots and blades,” says Dutch racer Lara van Ruijven.

Lara Van Ruijven (NED) during the ISU World Cup Short Track Calgary (CAN) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
“The blades are a little longer – they are 17 inches now and they were 16.5 before. It’s not that much but it’s still different. You get more pressure and can do a longer push. Not everyone is trying out these things but I have a short push so I think that it’s good for me to have a little bit longer blades. Perhaps it could help me in the finish someday, too.”

2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
The ideal blade, thinks Nathalie, is different for every skater. “It’s whatever works for your weight, height and center of gravity,” she says. “There’s a limit to how long and flat they can go because you need to hold your grip in the corner.”

Athletes prepare before the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Tomaszow Mazowiecki (Poland) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
The Short Track suit is also a world away from its original incarnation. “We were wearing Lycra – it was essentially a bathing suit,” laughs Nathalie. But this scanty kit had serious consequences. “There was nothing protective in the fabric so if you got cut, it went deep. We saw some really serious cuts. Now all the major arteries are covered in Kevlar, incorporated into the suits, so that can’t happen.

Choi Min Jeong (KOR), LI Jinyu (CHN), Kim Ji Yoo (KOR) and Suzanne Schulting (NED) at the ISU Short Track Speed Skating World Cup in Almaty (KAZ) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
“Skaters must now also wear cut-resistant gloves, as we’ve seen a lot of wrist and finger injuries.” Gloves must also now be white; this is to assist referees in seeing competitors’ hand movements.

2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Two other developments have assisted with athlete safety and speed. The first is the size of the rink and the way it’s put together. “Previously, especially in North America, Short Track was raced on hockey-sized rinks, which were much smaller,” says Nathalie.

General action during the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships at the Palavela arena on January 15, 2005 in Turin (ITA). The venue held the ice skating and short track speed skating at the Turin 2006 Olympics©Getty Images
“The move to using bigger, Olympic-sized rinks – the first one at a Games was Torino 2006 – meant skaters could enter and exit the corners wider and accelerate in the corners. They went faster.

Thibaut Fauconnet (FRA) and Daeheon Hwang (KOR) crash during the Men's 1500m Short Track Speed Skating final on day one of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games ©Getty Images
“The other thing that made a huge difference was the movable padding system. We used to slide into hardboard when we fell. The padding system, hooked together around the track, moves with you, so there are way fewer injuries. We used to have a lot more fractures and it was way more painful.”

Volunteers arrange the padded walls and ring format at the Pacific Coliseum, venue for the figure skating and short track speed skating on February 6, 2010 in Vancouver (CAN)©Getty Images
Helmets have also been revolutionized. “Our helmets were from cycling – leather ones with holes in them,” says Nathalie. “Now they’re much better. But I think there is progress to be made because there is still too much concussion.

Aaron Tran (USA) competes in the men's 5,000m relay short track speed skating heat event during the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games©AFP
“Helmets protect life very well but in Short Track there is still too much concussion because of the whiplash. This is the next evolution.”
Finally, Nathalie says there have been significant advances in how racers train. “They have a lot of great props off the ice to help now,” she says. “Resistance bands mean you can do a lot of dry-land exercise that’s similar to what you get on the ice.

Hee Suk Shim (KOR) warms up during the Audi ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Budapest (HUN) 2017©International Skating Union (ISU).
“We did ‘imitation’ skating, but just using our own weight. Now they can reproduce the weight of going into corner with a trainer or just by hooking on to something.
“Gyms and the science of exercise have progressed greatly, too. We did heavy weights, which didn’t really translate for speed. Now they use less weight and work more on power. The methodology has changed, and that has reduced overuse injuries.”

The athletes' training center of the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating competition at MasterCard Centre on November 8, 2015 in Toronto (CAN)©International Skating Union (ISU)
Overall, Nathalie feels that equipment developments have made her sport more exciting – and that it’ll keep getting faster. “I love where Short Track is going,” she says. “There are more skaters per race, more passes, more action. I’m watching thinking, ‘They’re crazy’.

Samuel Girard (CAN), Shaoang Liu (HUN) and Abzal Azhgaliyev (KAZ) during the ISU Short Track World Cup in Almaty (KAZ)2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
“Skaters are better protected now but I think, with speeds getting up to 50kph, there will have to be changes to keep them safe. Either the track has to be a little bit shorter or we put some kind of material into the suit fabric which slows them down when they fall. We’ll see where it goes.”
Follow the ISU Short Track Speed Skating action. The ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships are coming up and will take place from January 11 to 13, 2019 in Collalbo (ITA). Be sure not to miss anything by following us on onFacebook,Twitter,InstagramandYouTube.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union