2017 World bronze medalistGabrielle Daleman, of Canada, took a narrow lead as the Audi Cup of China continued Friday in Beijing with the Ladies Short Program. Daleman edged out Japan’sWakaba Higuchiand Russia’sElena Radionovaby less than a point to take the lead.
Daleman opened her program to ‘Habanera’ (from Carmen) by George Bizet with a high triple toe-triple toe combination and followed up with a triple Lutz and double Axel. Only the layback spin was somewhat wobbly. The Canadian earned 70.65 points, a season’s best. “I was very happy with how today went. It is another stepping stone to a long season and I’m very happy I’m starting off my Grand Prix season with a new season’s best,” Daleman said. “There is still lots of room for improvement and I can’t wait building to it. “At the end of the day, tomorrow is a new day, it’s a new program, I’m just going to skate the long program I’ve been doing in training, focus on what I can control, and the rest is out of my hands,” she added when asked about the closeness of the competition.

Higuchi’s performance to ‘Gypsy Dance’, by Leon Minkus, was highlighted by a big double Axel, triple Lutz-triple toe, triple flip and two level-four spins. The Rostelecom bronze medalist scored 70.53 points. “I felt I skated well in the Short Program, but some details I can do better and this is something I will work hard for,” the two-time World Junior bronze medalist told the post-event press conference. “We still have the free skating tomorrow, my goal is to make the Grand Prix Final, so I will work hard for that”, the Japanese skater continued.
Radionova produced a triple Lutz-triple toe, triple loop, double Axel as well as level-four spins and footwork in her routine to ‘Porgy and Bess’ to collect a season’s best of 70.48 points. “After Rostelecom Cup I didn’t have to travel anywhere so I went right back to training, because there was not so much time before the next Grand Prix,” the two-time European silver medalist said. “I think I skated with more confidence and better and the scores reflect that. The difference in points indeed is very small, so everything will be decided tomorrow in the free skating.”
The skaters ranked fourth to seventh still have a good chance to fight for the podium. 2017 World Junior ChampionAlina Zagitova(RUS) fell on the back end of the triple Lutz-triple loop combination, but landed a triple flip to come fourth at 69.44 points. 2015 World ChampionElizaveta Tuktamysheva(RUS) finished fifth with 67.10 points. 2017 World Junior silver medalistMarin Honda(JPN) and 2017 Four Continents ChampionMai Mihara(JPN) follow in sixth and seventh place, respectively. They are virtually tied with 66.90 points each, but Honda’s slightly higher technical score placed her ahead.
The ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating series consists of six events and culminates in the ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating Final in Nagoya (JPN) in December. The top six skaters/couples in each discipline qualify for the Final. The global prize money for the Grand Prix is US$272,000.
Full entry lists and results of the ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating 2017/18 are availablehere.  Follow the discussion on social media by using#GPFigure #FigureSkating.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union