#ShortTrackSkating

Park Ji Won (KOR) skates ahead of Steven Dubois (CAN) and Kim Gun Woo (KOR) in the 1500m final at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
The ISU Four Continents Short Track Championships have long been a duel between the men of Canada and the Republic of Korea, and the battle continued at the third edition of the competition with two of the world's best skaters going head-to-head.
In the 1500m,Park Ji Won(KOR) produced a trademark performance to win gold, while in the 500m, local rocketSteven Dubois(CAN) held off a wild charge from teammateJordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN) to retain the title he took last season.
Park parade continues in 1500m
Park won both the 1000m and 1500m at last season’s Four Continents, is the reigning ISU World Champion in the distances, and was the runaway winner of the inaugural ISU Crystal Globe.
It was always going to be a challenge to dislodge this title.

Park Ji Won (KOR) was the heavy favorite in the 1500m at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
William Dandjinou(CAN) gave it a good go. He led in the early part of the race, but Park passed him coolly with five laps remaining. Dandjinou threatened to retake the lead, but he tumbled on a corner.
Once in his rhythm at the front of a pack, Park is almost impossible to chase down.
Dubois tried, but the local hero had to settle for second, withKim Gun Woo(KOR), who is having an excellent season, finishing third.
“I’m happy. The Four Continents is a good competition, we have some good races with Canada,” said Park. “But I just think about one race, and trying to be my very best every time.
“Before, when I was in second place in the World Cup (in this distance earlier in the season), I was worried about this race. But I tried hard and felt better today.”
Better, with room to improve.
“I am not back to my best form yet. I hope it will come over the next few months, and that I can get to that point for the World Championships. I hope I will get back into my best condition.”
Speed king Dubois targets world record
Just as it was going to take something special to beat Park in the longest individual race, defeating Dubois in the sprint these days is a challenge. Like Park, he won this title last year, and is the ISU World Champion in the distance.
His teammate, the ever-improving Pierre-Gilles, made a great attempt. Like Dubois, he is a diminutive powerhouse who generates astonishing speed out of the corners.
With Dubois a couple of metres clear in the early part of this race, few could have caught him. Pierre-Gilles, though, clawed back the distance to send the result to a photo finish. Dubois prevailed by inches. The pair looked at each other gleefully and embraced as they crossed the line.Andrew Heo(USA) was third.

Canada's Steven Dubois and Jordan Pierre-Gilles celebrate their one-two finish in the 500m final at the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Laval, Canada © ISU
After the race, Dubois set his sights on even greater achievements.
“I want to try and break the world record in the 500m. For sure I am getting closer and closer. Last week I went sub 40 (seconds). This week in Laval the ice is not super fast, but I think it is something I can do, and I’m going to work for it.”
Pierre-Gilles was delighted to give the record-seeker a run for his money.
“It was a great finish. I knew we would be one and two today, probably at the end of the race. We never want to create trouble (for each other at the finish). We are happy to have two medals for the country.
“I had a few slips and there was a lot of movement at the end, so it was really hard to catch him. He was going so fast. But I’m really happy with the race and the result.”
The ISU Four Continents Short Track Championships 2024 continues Sunday, with the 1000m and the relays.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification races on Friday and repechage races (Saturday and Sunday morning), the ISU will offer a live stream with English commentary on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Only for the Friday qualification races and repechage races on Saturday and Sunday morning (local time), no geoblocking will apply.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships events 2023/24:
Nov 4 - 5, 2023ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Laval (CAN)
Jan 12 - 14, 2024ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Feb 22 - 25, 2024ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Mar 15 - 17, 2024ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Rotterdam (NED)
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union