
Xandra Velzeboer of the Dutch Lions claimed her sixth gold medal in seven 500m races in Montreal on the ISU Short Track World Tour.© ISU
The crowd at Maurice Richard Arena in Montreal can’t get enough of the winning Canadian Ice Maples – but the rest of the world struck back on Sunday, as the Dutch Lions and Korean White Tigers took the spoils.
Nothing is supposed to be predictable in Short Track, which makesXandra Velzeboer’s predictability in the 500m all the more amazing. The Dutch rocket won again in the sprint, and has now prevailed in six of the last seven 500m races contested in Montreal on the Tour.
Meanwhile, the steady improvement ofChoi Minjeongof the Korean White Tigers — already a legend in the sport and one of its most decorated racers — feels ominous for her competitors. She maintained a trademark Zen as she moved through the field to win an otherwise hectic 1500m, the distance at which she is aiming to win a third consecutive Olympic gold medal.
Courtney Saraultof the Canadian Ice Maples couldn’t quite replicate her run of success in Montreal over the past week, but still emerged with a medal, whileKristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles seems to be finding her feet again.
'I can stay pretty calm’: Velzeboer on sprint success
Velzeboer may have won again, but something unusual did happen during the 500m final: she was overtaken.
The Dutch world-record holder got to the first corner in first place, as she often does, but was passed by Sarault, who looked strong and was pursuing another gold to add to Saturday's 1000m.
Velzeboer held her speed, though, and immediately struck back. The Canadian was second, with Santos-Griswold third.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) nips Courtney Sarault (CAN) and Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) at the 500m finish line Sunday in Montreal.© ISU
“I am super happy to win this one — it was a very different race from last week,”said Velzeboer.“All the girls are just skating so fast now, I could feel breath on my neck. Everything is very close. You have to bring your A game every race.
“That makes it super exciting to race. You never know what it’s going to be like. I started in position No. 1 and you want to keep that. I was very happy to have enough speed to take back the lead. I’m super happy I can win in different circumstances and situations.”
Her secret?“I can stay pretty calm, even though it is a sprint. It is a mental game. You have to be physically strong, but you have to be in the right space of mind, too.”
Sarault said a slight twinge stopped her from getting ahead.
“I’ve had issues with my right foot for some reason today, and when I made the pass, I couldn’t hold it. Physically I had enough gas. It’s unfortunate, but it’s Short Track. You can’t win them all.”
Santos-Griswold, who has started the season slowly after a summer marred by injury, was upbeat.

Silver medalist Courtney Sarault (CAN), gold medalist Xandra Velzeboer (NED) and bronze medalist Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) after the 500m final Sunday in Montreal.© ISU
“I’m happy to be back on the podium,”Santos-Griswold said.“It was something I wasn’t sure I was able to do at the moment. I definitely feel more like myself today. I haven’t had results so far this season so that kind of took the pressure off a little bit. I came in thinking there wasn’t so much to worry about.
“The worst thing that could happen was I might not do anything again. That helped me dial in today. It feels like I still have a way to go, but it’s coming back a little.”
Choi hits heights in 1500m
Nine racers lined up in the 1500m final and it was always likely to be hectic. Sarault andCorinne Stoddard(USA) made the early running, and overtook each other as the pace quickened. The Canadian lost speed after her pass, though, and Choi came through the congestion on the final corner.
Stoddard clung on for second, with Santos-Griswold taking another bronze. Sarault was fourth.

Choi Minjeong gave the Korean White Tigers their only gold medal of the weekend, winning the 1500m final in Montreal on Sunday.© ISU
“I feel like my tactics were good. I was waiting for the perfect moment to come, then I moved at the right time,”said Choi.
“I knew it was not going to be an easy race. It was a very competitive field. But I did my best today and I’m very happy with the result at this moment. It’s great racing in Canada, and I always get a good result in Montreal. I love the fans and atmosphere.”
Here, Choi looked like the world-beating racer of four years ago.
“I am older, so I am not exactly the same, but I feel very good,”she said.“I am in good shape. I will prepare a little differently for the Olympics this time. It’s been 12 years into my career, and so the conditional skills I need are a little different now, but I will do my best according to my current condition.”
Stoddard has been trying different tactics – leading races and coming from behind through the pack – throughout the two Montreal meetings, without yet striking gold.
“I led the whole race. I was feeling really good, and I thought I had it, but Minjeong got me on that last lap,”Stoddard said.“Her tactics are really good. She played the right game."

Corinne Stoddard of the American Eagles reacts to her second-place showing in the 1500 final Sunday in Montreal.© ISU
“I have been really strong,”Stoddard said.“The physical ability is there, it’s just my tactics that need to change. Once I dial that in, hopefully before February, hopefully my physical and tactical will both be right, and I’ll get that gold.
“Now I go home, train hard, skate with Kristen and the boys, lead a ton of laps, and go to Poland and try to get that gold I want.”
Tight race for the ISU Crystal Globe
Sarault’s fireworks this weekend and last keep her at the top of theleaderboardwith 490 points. Stoddard’s consistency has her second with 410, while Velzeboer’s sprinting supremacy has her in third place, with 396.
The tour goes again inGdansk, Polandfrom 20-23 November, before moving on toDordrecht, Netherlands, for the all-important fourth and final leg of the Tour, on 27-30 November.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union