
#ShortTrackWorldTour
The ISU introduced the Crystal Globes two seasons ago to honor the top-performing male and female skaters in the field with this prestigious trophy.

It proved an immediate hit, with Suzanne Schulting of the Dutch Lions winning in 2022/23 and Kim Gilli of the Korean White Tigers victorious in 2023/24 for the women, while Park Ji Won of the White Tigers has prevailed in both editions of the men’s Crystal Globe.

For 2024/25, thanks to a revamped format with only three individual races per weekend (in the past, one of the distances was usually contested twice), the points on offer has changed.

Additionally as winners of the individual Crystal Globe last year, Kim Gilli and Park Ji Won of the Korean White Tigers were presented with uniquely designed helmet by Itzhak de Laat who competes with the Dutch Lions.

Kim Gilli (R) and Park Ji Won (L) of the Korean White Tigers with helmet designer Itzhak de Laat (middle) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
The ISU Team Crystal Globe, meanwhile, has been introduced to give every single skater – not just those fighting for the podium – a vital role in gathering points for their team.

In a bid to bring more team spirit to Short Track, the ISU Short Track World Tour now has a new competition format, featuring bold team identities and fresh uniforms—transforming the sport's look and feel.

It has proven popular with the teams already. “It is really exciting,” said Canada coach Marc Gagnon. “I didn’t do the maths, but right away when it was announced, I thought ‘that is one we can get, but we will have to work really hard on it’.

“All the points are important, for different levels of skaters they can all play a part. They have to gather together and do relays, too, so in terms of development and team spirit, it is fantastic.

“For a coach it’s a really great tool. I wish it had been a thing when I was skating. I was a guy that loved that team element of things, I was the guy helping everyone out.”

Marc Gagnon coach of Canadian Ice Maples©International Skating Union (ISU)
The Team Crystal Globe also highlights the vital role of veteran skaters who may no longer be focused on individual medals, but provide essential leadership. Their experience is key in strengthening overall team performance.

“I know that’s the role I have in the team now, as a role model, and as a teammate, as well as still a good racer,” says Sjinkie Knegt of the Dutch Lions. “I can teach them the right things, and I hope my teammates get something good from me.

“I am really enjoying it. I like the Dutch Lions, it is a lot different from when I started years ago. It is good that the ISU wants to change things and I love it. Hopefully the fans enjoy it, too.”
Find out more about theISU Crystal Globe via thefact sheet.

Women’s ISU Crystal Globe Standings, after event one
1.    Kristen Santos-Griswold, USA Eagles                              220
=2.  Xandra Velzeboer Dutch Lions                                          200
=2.  Hanne Desmet, Belgian Ice Bears                                    200
4.    Choi Min Jeong, Korean White Tigers                               174
5.   Kim Gilli, Korean White Tigers                                            162

Men’s ISU Crystal Globe Standingsafter event one
1.    William Dandjinou, Canadian Ice Maples                         220
=2.  Jens van t’Wout, Dutch Lions                                             156
=2.  Pietro Sighel, Italian Gladiators                                          156
4.   Steven Dubois, Canadian Ice Maples                                 150
5.   Park Ji Won, Korean White Tigers                                       138

ISU Team Crystal Globe Standings, after event one


Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union