#UpAgain#ShortTrackSkating
Former Short Track Speed Skater Eddy Alvarez joined a highly selective group on August 7, 2021 at Tokyo 2020. He was a crucial member of the USA team that won the silver medal in men’s baseball, losing to Japan in the final.
Eddy Alvarez (USA) competes at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games ©Getty Images
Seven years ago, at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, Alvarez had helped the USA men’s Short Track team to win silver in the 5000m relay.
His double is highly unusual. It means Alvarez enters a club of only six other athletes, including only two other Americans, to stand on the podium at both a Summer and Winter Games.

Eddy Alvarez (USA) competes at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games ©Getty Images
“Just to be that small percentage of that small percentage is nuts,” said the 31-year-old. “It feels like déjà vu.” Alvarez competed as a vital infielder and the team’s lead-off hitter as the USA had quested for glory.
A post shared by Eddy Alvarez (@eddyalvarez90)
His team had played brilliantly en route to the final, beating Israel, South Korea, Dominican Republic along the way. But they couldn’t quite get past host nation Japan in the final who won 2-0.
Alvarez was disappointed not to get gold, but proud of his achievements. “It’s hard to describe it, because it’s like bittersweet, but at the same time, it’s an unbelievable feeling,” he said after the final.
Assessing his new neckwear, he said: “It’s just as heavy as the other one. Same color, little different design, but it's still an incredible journey, an incredible experience.”
A post shared by Eddy Alvarez (@eddyalvarez90)
The Miami Marlins player, who recently broke into the big leagues of Major League Baseball, also had the honor of carrying the flag for USA at the opening ceremony of the Olympics.
“I must say this feels way more than just a personal achievement,” said Alvarez after he was given that honor. “The significance runs much deeper. This represents the American Dream. It solidifies that the journey was worth all the time and struggle.”
Alvarez added that he had been approached by many Americans in the Olympic Village calling him, “the flag bearer guy.”
He was recently interviewed on The Ice Skating Podcast, discussing his unique back story and love of Short Track skating. You can listen to Eddy's story below.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union