

#ShortTrackWorldTour
Une publication partagée par ISU Speed Skating (@isuspeedskating)
With one month to go before the start of the highly anticipatedISU Short Track World Tour, the International Skating Union (ISU)is excited to unveil the dynamic new team identities. Dynamic, bold, loud: these designs capture the essence of each host nation's cultural heritage and bring electrifying energy into the Tour. Let the countdown to action begin!
Launching on October 25th in Montreal (CAN), the Short Track World Tour will span six events across three continents, delivering an adrenaline-fueled showcase of mind-blowing speed, masterful strategy, and world class skill. In celebration of this landmark series, the ISU has teamed up with designers and the national federations to create fresh, bold identities for teams that encapsulate the essence of each competing team, blending national pride with unrelenting competitive drive.
Today, the ISU spotlights some of the teams:




“These identities are more than just visual elements; they represent the passion, pride, and energy each nation will bring to the ice,” said ISU President Jae Youl Kim. “The designs capture the distinctive spirit of each team, adding a dynamic new layer to the Short Track World Tour.”
Get ready to see these bold designs in action at every stop of the Tour, which culminates in Milan, Italy, where the final event will double as a key test event for the Milano-Cortina 2026 Olympic Winter Games.
But this is not all: the unveiling of the team identities is only one part of innovations that the ISU Short Track World Tour brings onto ice. Alongside thrilling on-ice competition, fans can expect enhanced TV broadcasts, exclusive behind-the-scenes access, and immersive fan experiences that showcase the world’s best short track speed skaters like never before.
For more details on the ISU Short Track World Tour and to view the new team identities, visitshort-track.com.


Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union