
Steven Dubois (CAN) at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
ForSteven Dubois’ entire athletic life, he’s been chasing someone’s tail. The boy from Terrebonne, near Montreal, took up Short Track Speed Skating at the age of 11 – far later than most of his contemporaries – and has been playing catch-up, very enthusiastically, ever since.
#speedskating #mysport #bestsport
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onFeb 19, 2013 at 6:06am PST
“I couldn’t even skate when I started Short Track – so I had to learn that before I could learn to race,” he says with a laugh. “I guess most people start a lot younger than me, at five or six. But I instantly loved it. I’d always been a fast kid. In elementary school I was doing a quick 100m. So I had athletic capabilities, I just hadn’t really done anything about it until I started skating.
Big second place granting me the chance to race at junior world championships! ???????? Most stressful competition ever. #worlds #worldchampionship #teamcanada #letswin .
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onDec 20, 2015 at 3:06pm PST
“I was the worst person at the club when I started. And even as I got better, I was always going after someone faster. My goal was to try and beat this person, then when I managed that, I’d go after someone else. I’ve always been motivated to get faster.”

Steven Dubois (CAN) at the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2016©International Skating Union (ISU)
Dubois was soon the quickest junior around in Canada, but his next step – entering a star-studded national squad, packed with veteran gold medal winners and powerful young prospects – meant he was chasing shadows again.
“I started at the bottom when I started training with the likes ofCharles HamelinandSam Girard, three years ago,” he says. “Coming into such an experienced team was great. I was trying to keep up with those guys, which was a lot of fun. But last year I started being able to compete with them. They were such an inspiration. I figured out that I was better than I thought.”
Gros départ aux sélections Olympiques avec une 5e et 3e position au 1500m, en plus d'une 4e au 500m! Un peu de repos et on continue???????? * * #olympics #teamcanada #speedskating #shorttrack
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onAug 13, 2017 at 4:25pm PDT
Dubois is being modest. At 21, he exploded on to the Short Track Speed Skating scene, taking three individual podium places in 2018/19, his debut senior season (1500m and 1000m bronze at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Turin, 1500m bronze in Salt Lake City).
Finished the first half of the season, pretty happy I got to stand on every step of the podium ???????????? Now it’s back to training for the next two months before world cups 5 & 6, time to work hard to get those golds ???? #worldcup #teamcanada #speedskating #shorttrack #onehanddown #speed #yenmanqueunpeu
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onDec 12, 2018 at 3:07pm PST
“It was an amazing year, and I didn’t think I’d do that good,” he admits. “I was thinking maybe I was good enough to win one medal. I didn’t know what my best distance was. I thought maybe 500m, because I have a good start, so maybe I can squeeze something there. But I got three individual medals, even in the 1000m, which I thought was my worst distance. I was surprised but happy to live up to my capabilities.”

Steven Dubois (CAN) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (USA) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Dubois is still figuring out his strengths; in fact, they may lie as an all-rounder. He looks built to compete across all three distances, an ability that can help him contend for the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships overall title over the next few seasons.
“500m is the most fun, and I think 1500m might be my best distance – there’s more time to analyse,” he ponders. “The 1000m is a distance where you benefit from experience. You have to know yourself and how much energy to sacrifice at the beginning of the race. What I’m lacking most is experience but if I keep improving, maybe the 1000m could become my best race.
Only three weeks left before 2018-2019 world cups trials and I’m still learning new things and improving ???? ???????? #speedskating #shorttrack #teamcanada #worldcup #sport #speed
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onAug 30, 2018 at 9:43am PDT
“I’d like a shot at the overall title. That’s my goal, and most goals should be a little bit out of your reach. Otherwise next season, I’d like to improve on a bronze medal.”
Dubois’ teammates are certainly impressed. “Steven is one of our best skaters right now,” says Hamelin. “His technique is great. He can surprise everyone.”
Dubois knows what he has to do to get to the top in his field, however: get past the Republic of Koreans. “They are so powerful,” he says. “I was watching their trials recently, and I think three out of their six racers for next season will be different. They have such a good racing pool.

Park Ji Won (KOR) Hwang Daeheon (KOR) and Steven Dubois (CAN) at the World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (ITA) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
“A real difference is the fact that they race a lot. They have seven extra competitions a year, where we just have one extra as well as the World Cups. It gives them experience.
“The Korean style is unique – it’s very hard to find a way around them. They go so fast at the end of races, so you can’t go too fast at the beginning, otherwise you’ll get outsided every time. But you can’t go too slow either, otherwise they will control the race. It’s a fine balance, to have that energy to be faster at the end.
“But I’m getting closer to comprehending what they’re doing.”
Last week of training before world cup #1 in Calgary, getting faster and faster with a couple laps under 8 seconds this past week ???? ???????? • • #speed #skating #shorttrack #teamcanada #worldcup #Calgary
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onOct 26, 2018 at 2:40pm PDT
The wisdom of the likes of Hamelin certainly helps. “They’re great at training, but it is at the competitions that they really help me,” says Dubois. “If I get mad or flustered at a big race, they calm me down. They tell me not to be too hard on myself. They understand the mental game really well.”
Training camp in the sun with the team, what more could we ask for ???? ???? ????: @mathieuberni #teamcanada #usa #arizona #bike #heat
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onApr 8, 2019 at 8:50pm PDT
Dubois is already training for 2019/20. The squad had a sunny week of biking and weights in Arizona, but are now back on the Canadian ice daily. Dubois lives and breathes Short Track Speed Skating– quite literally, as he is apartment-mates with two other squad members, shopping and prepping meals together – and is laser-focused on his eventual goal of getting on a podium at a Winter Olympic Games.

Steven Dubois (CAN) at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
“I didn’t even watch the Winter Olympics until Sochi 2014, after I’d started skating,” he admits. “I loved watching the summer Games, but I don’t even think I knew the Winter Games existed. It was nice to find out there was one for the sport I was doing.”
That’s Dubois in a nutshell. He may have been late to the party – but don’t be shocked if he is finally leading the celebrations very soon.
No more training in 2018, time for some rest then it’s back to work harder than ever ???? ???? ???? #speedskating #shorttrack #worldcup #teamcanada #newyear #2019
A post shared bySteven Dubois(@stevendubois) onDec 30, 2018 at 2:09pm PST
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union