The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2014/15 resumed today in Montreal (CAN) with the Ladies and Men’s 1000 m, second 500 m and Relay events.
Arianna Fontana (ITA) and Dmitry Migunov (RUS) claim wins in the 500 mArianna Fontana of Italy claimed the win in the second Ladies’ 500 m event of the weekend. Ji-Soo Jeon (KOR) earned the second place and Yue Ling (CHN) settled for third. Charlotte Gilmartin (GBR) finished fourth while Yutong Han (CHN) was fifth. Kexin Fan (CHN) maintains a narrow lead over Ji-Soo Jeon in the World Cup classification for the distance.
On the Men’s side, Dmitry Migunov (RUS) won an exciting 500 m event that saw five skaters at the start line. Migunov reached the final after qualifying through the repechage rounds earlier in the day. His teammate, Vladimir Grigorev finished in second place ahead of John-Henry Krueger (USA) who was third. Yoan Gauthier (CAN) and Tianyu Han (CHN) claimed fourth and fifth place respectively.
Suk Hee Shim (KOR) wins the 1000 m in consecutive World Cup eventsSuk Hee Shim of Korea won her second Ladies 1000 m event in as many weekends, and takes the lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. Her teammate Minjeong Choi claimed second place and Yihan Guo (CHN) finished in third place. Jessica Smith (USA) finished fourth.
On the Men’s side, Da Woon Sin (KOR) claimed the win. He took the lead from Semen Elistratov (RUS) on the last lap who had led most of the race. Elistratov finished second, giving him enough points to take the lead in the World Cup classification. Shaolin Sandor Liu (HUN) earned his first individual World Cup medal when he crossed the line in third place. Dequan Chen (CHN) finished fourth.
Korea claims the Ladies and Men’s RelayThe Ladies’ 3000 m Relay was led by Korea from start to finish, and the win provides Korea the lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. The other two podium spots were left for Canada, Italy and Russia to race for and it all came down to the last lap. Italy took advantage of both Canada and Russia falling, to claim second place. Russia was quicker to get up and crossed the line in third place. Canada finished fourth.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was closely contested between Great Britain, Hungary and Korea when the Netherlands had a poor exchange midway through the race. While Korea secured the win, a photo finish review was required to confirm the other two podium positions: Hungary earned second place and Great Britain third. Korea takes the lead in World Cup classification with the win.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series continues in Shanghai (CHN) on December 12-14, 2014.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union