Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
#ShortTrackSkating


The ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships take place at the Hala Olivia in Gdansk, Poland from 12-14 January, with a host of big names from 24 countries competing for the continent’s top honours.
The women’s races are likely to be dominated by a small group of highly decorated athletes who are currently at the top of their games at ISU World Cup level.
The men’s field is much harder to predict, which should lead to a thrilling, wide-open battle.

Velzeboer and Desmet strong favourites, Schulting substitute for Dutch team
Two names will be heavy favourites to clean up the medals in the female category:Xandra Velzeboer(NED) andHanne Desmet(BEL).
Both competitors are in the form of their lives.
Velzeboer is the current fastest woman on ice. She is the 500m world record holder, 500m and 1000m ISU World Champion, and has been in stellar condition in both distances all season.

Hanne Desmet (BEL) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Montreal, Quebec (CAN) @ISU
In the shorter race, only one other athlete has really got close to her: teammate, training partner and great friendSelma Poutsma Selma Poutsma(NED).
At the recent ISU World Cup meeting in Seoul, in fact, the pair were dead level – a photo finish couldn’t separate them – and they were awarded joint gold medals.
Poutsma can perhaps be considered unlucky to be skating at the same time as Velzeboer in one respect: she is so quick, she’d probably have a hatful of golds already if it wasn’t for her compatriot.
But the pair also acknowledge that they regularly beat each other in practice – and make each other go faster, so she’s probably fortunate in another regard. Maybe this is Poutsma’s time to finally get a skate length ahead of her teammate.

Xandra Velzeboer and Selma Poutsma (NED) pose during the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Seoul (KOR) @ISU
Desmet is also on fire. The Belgian made a breakthrough at last season’s Euros in Gdansk, beatingSuzanne Schulting(NED) in the Dutch ace’s favourite distance to seal 1000m gold. It was her (and Belgium’s) first top-level Short Track gold medal.
Since then, however, Desmet hasn’t stopped climbing podiums. Showing better racecraft and speed than ever, she has won three ISU golds this season already. The 1000m and 1500m double is a strong possibility.

Kim Gilli (KOR) , Hanne Desmet (BEL) and Kristen Santos (USA) pose during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Montreal (CAN) @ISU
One name lurking on the teamsheet is certainly of further interest, however. Suzanne Schulting is named as a Netherlands substitute.
The 26-year-old has dominated the Euros for the last four seasons (she won two individual golds last season and all three the one before), and is arguably already the finest female European Short Tracker of all time.
But Schulting has been on a long sabbatical since the end of the 2022-23 season, in order to recuperate from two gruelling Olympic cycles.
She is presumably in Gdansk this time around as she eases herself back into the sport, and unlikely to race. But who knows would could transpire should circumstances see her take to the ice.
Others that can trouble the podium? Xandra’s sisterMichelle Velzeboer(NED) is a steady campaigner,Kamila Stormowska(POL) is ever improving, and Italy have some good young racers.

Kamila Stormowska (POL) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Montreal (CAN) @ISU
It will be a huge surprise if the Lowlands countries don’t dominate this time around, though – and anything other than a Dutch relay victory will be a major shock.

Men’s field wide open
Unlike the women’s races, you’d be foolish trying to pick a winner with any certainty in the men’s races this weekend.
This is a field packed with talent, including previous European Champions and some ISU World Cup gold medal winners, but there is no stand-out individual, which means every man on the start line will be fancying their chances this weekend.
Perhaps the most consistent trio currently on the circuit areStijn Desmet(BEL),Jens van t’Wout(NED) andPietro Sighel(ITA).
Desmet broke through with his debut senior gold medal at last season’s European Championships (in the 1000m, minutes after his sister had won her gold), and got silver in the 1500m.

Stijn Desmet (BEL) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Montreal, Quebec (CAN) @iSU
He is a powerful and clever racer and has built on that platform, performing consistently in the ISU World Cups ever since – but in a ludicrously competitive men’s field, hasn’t been able to outdo the Koreans and Canadians in the way his sister has this term. Nevertheless, he will fancy his chances of multiple medals this weekend.
Van t’Wout (NED) also has a fine – if short – senior pedigree. He had a remarkable 2022-23 season, winning three ISU World Cup gold medals.
T’Wout immediately looked like the finished article, and he added another gold this season at the ISU World Cup in Montreal. He can content across all distances again in Poland.

Jens Van 't Wout (NED) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Montreal, Quebec (CAN) @ISU
Sighel has been a force in the 500m over the last couple of seasons. He is the current World and European Champion, but strangely hasn’t backed up those achievements fully in an ISU World Cup, where he’s yet to top the podium. As a man for the big occasion, however, he will fancy his chances of another sprint gold here.

Pietro Sighel (ITA) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track at Maurice Richard Arena 2023 in Montreal, Quebec (CAN) @ISU
Beyond these three, there are a host of contenders.Sjinkie Knegt(NED) is the man in the field with the most honours. At 34, he hasn’t made a podium in a while, but can never be discounted. His teammatesItzhak de Laat(NED) is always competitive in the Euros, while bothTeun Boer(NED) andFriso Emons(NED) are brimming with promise.

Sjinkie Knegt (NED) competes during the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023 in Seoul (KOR) @ISU
Roberts Kruzbergs(LAT) andDiane Sellier(POL) have both won races at ISU World Cup level and lead the Eastern European charge, withReinis Berzins(LAT) also in the mix, whileFurkan Akar(TUR) can also be a contender.
France have an energetic youngster, Quentin Fercoq (FRA) and a wily veteran,Sebastian Lepape(FRA), while Italy’sLuca Spechenhauser(ITA) and Great Britain’sNiall Treacy(GBR) are steadily improving.

Niall Treacy (GBR) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track at Maurice Richard Arena 2023 Montreal, Quebec (CAN) @ISU
Given the European Championships’ history of throwing up first-time winners, don’t be surprised to see someone else emerge this time around at the Hala Olivia. It’s going to be exciting.
The 1500m and 500m finals take place on Saturday, while the 1000m and relays (3000m women and 5000m men) take place on Sunday.
For full results, entry lists and further information about the ISU European Short Track Championships 2024, please visit webpagehere.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) ISU European Short Track Championships sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox