#ShortTrackSkating
A wild day of racing at the Maurice-Richard Arena in Montreal sawKim Gilli(KOR) extend her lead in the ISU Short Track World Cup points table after an epic 1500m (1) race.
Local fans, meanwhile, went crazy for the ever-improvingRikki Doak(CAN), who grabbed her first ever individual gold medal at this level.
Kim prevails in 1500m scramble
The battle for the ISU Crystal Globe was a procession last season, withSuzanne Schulting(NED) outclassing the rest of the field.
2023-24, however, looks like it could be a battle royale.
Kim,Hanne Desmet(BEL) andKristen Santos-Griswold(USA) all got golds in the first ISU Short Track World Cup event at the same venue last weekend, and whenever the brilliant trio line up against each other at the moment, fireworks are guaranteed.
All three are convinced of their abilities, fiercely determined, and not shy to attempt risky passes.
It was Kim who prevailed this time around. The 19-year-old, who possesses racecraft that defies her years, often comes from the back of the field. Perhaps wisely this time around considering the jostling to come, she selected to hit the front of this race early.

Kim Gilli (KOR) hit the front early to hold off a strong field in the 1500m at the ISU World Cup Short Track event in Montreal, Canada © ISU
Kim ramped up the speed while Desmet, Santos-Griswold andCorinne Stoddard(USA) engaged in high-speed overtaking.
It would cost Desmet, who crossed the line second but was ultimately penalised for a lane change. Santos-Griswold ended up with silver andDanae Blais(CAN) the bronze.
“It was a very fun race and really exciting, I’m happy with how it went,” said Kim. “In the middle of the race I knew it was my gold. I saw the situation and thought the win was mine. All the other racers were fighting, so I planned to get to the front.”
Kim tops the points table for the season so far, with 330, ahead of Santos-Griswold (290) and Desmet (225).
“I’ve started the season well, because I have been training so hard, but I feel this is natural,” she said. “I am working so hard, and the coaches are very good.”
Home skater Doak defeats Dutch duo
The 500m final was also Short Track at its very best.
Few racers have been able to overhaul 500m world record holderXandra Velzeboer(NED) at the distance of late, teammateSelma Poutsma(NED) being one of them.
Velzeboer loves to start fast and leave the field in her wake. Here, Poutsma decided on the same tactic. She took off like a rocket, putting clear ice between her and her teammate, and grimacing with the physical toll.
Velzeboer ground back and overtook her to cross the line first – but was adjudged to have impeded Poutsma and was disqualified.
Home sprinter Doak (CAN) glided home through the chaos to receive gold, with Poutsma second andMartina Valcepina(ITA) in third.

Rikki Doak (CAN), center, thrilled the home crowd by taking gold in the 500m ahead of the disqualified Xandra Velzeboer (NED), left © ISU
“It was crazy, I was in third and I felt really good,” said Doak. “I saw the Netherlands doing a pass, so I just went out and got ahead.
“It is 10 times more special to be here on home ice, because I can look up and see my family, they are my biggest supporters. I’m happy they can share this.
“This is my favourite distance, 100 per cent. I was always a sprinter but I wasn’t able to show my true speed. Two years ago I started to really put it in action and show my speed, and it is paying off now.”
She knows the level required to compete.
“Going up against Xandra and Selma is very difficult, they are so fast,” said Doak.
“Xandra has the world record for 500m. I was skating behind her when she did that. So I know what she can do. That is the next step. Xandra is physically brilliant and has great technique too.”
In the 2000m mixed relay, China won the gold medal, with the Netherlands getting silver and Italy the bronze.
For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification races on Friday and repechage races (Saturday and Sunday morning), the ISU will offer a live stream with English commentary on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Only for the Friday qualification races and repechage races on Saturday and Sunday morning (local time), no geoblocking will apply.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union