

#ShortTrackSkating
History of Short Track Speed Skating at the Olympic Games

Wilf O''Reilly (GBR) skates around the ice during the men''s 1000 meter during the Olympic Games in Albertville (FRA) @Chris Cole
Short Track Speed Skating has only been part of the official program at the past eight Olympic Winter Games, but its impact in that time has been huge. FromApolo Ohno(USA) andViktor Ahn’s(RUS) record-setting achievements toYang Yang(A) racing to glory for China, not to mentionSteven Bradbury’s(AUS) iconic underdog triumph, the sport has made a habit of grabbing the headlines since making its Olympic debut at the 1992 Games in Albertville, France.
Olympic beginnings
In fact, the sport first made its mark on the Olympic Games back in 1932. Organisers in Lake Placid, inspired by the popularity of what was then known as ‘indoor speed skating’, introduced pack-style starts to the Speed Skating program. However, despite being a hit with fans, Short Track had to wait a further 56 years before its next outing on the biggest sporting stage.

Short Track, which had spread from Japan to Belgium to Australia, finally got an opportunity as a demonstration sport in Calgary in 1988. A resounding success, the sport stepped up to the top table four years later.
Korea’sKim Ki-Hoonand the USA’sCathy Turnerbecame the first individual Short Track Olympic champions, triumphing in the men’s 1000m and women’s 500m respectively at Albertville 1992.

Ki-Hoon Kim (KOR) celebrates after winning the gold medal in the 1000 metres Short Track Speed Skating event at the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville (FRA) @ChrisCole/Allsport
Two years later in Lillehammer, Short Track provided the youngest ever Winter Olympic Champion – 13-year-old Kim Yoon Mi (KOR) in the women’s 3000m relay.
More distances were added to the program as Short Track established a foothold at the Games, and since Salt Lake City 2002 eight events have featured at the Games (500m, 1000m, 1500m, men’s and women’s relays).
The mixed team relay has been added for Beijing 2022, cementing Short Track’s position as an entirely gender-equal sport.

Skaters compete during the Mixed NOC Team Relay in Short Track Speed Skating of the 2020 Winter Youth Olympics in Lausanne (SUI) @RvS.Media/Monika Majer
Unforgettable moments
Short Track has lit up every one of the eight Games it has appeared in, but several instances stand out. The first is perhaps one of the most famous of all Olympic stories.

Mathieu Turcotte, bronze (CAN), Steven Bradbury, gold (AUS) and Apolo Anton Ohno, silver (USA) receive their medals for the men's 1000m speed skating during the Winter Olympic Games at the Salt Lake (USA) @Mike Hewitt
Australia’s Steven Bradbury travelled to Salt Lake City in 2002 for his fourth Olympic Games. A solid performer, the then 28-year-old had a best Olympic finish of eighth. But having squeaked through to the men’s 1000m final, that was about to change.

On the final bend of an intense race, China’sLi Jiajuncaught the great Apolo Ohno’s skate and sent all four front-runners crashing to the ice. Bradbury, safely marooned at the back of the field, was left free to cross the line and grab the most unexpected of golds.
At the same Games, Yang Yang (A) claimed China’s first ever Winter Olympic gold medals as she triumphed in the 1000m and 500m.

Gold medallist Yang Yang (CHN) and compatriot Chunlu Wang jubilate with their national flag after winning respectively gold and bronze of the women's 500m final short track race during the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City (USA) @AFP
Four years later in Torino, skaters from the Republic of Korea began to stamp their authority on proceedings, with Ahn Hyun Soo (later known as Viktor Ahn) leading the charge as they won six out of the eight gold medals on offer.

Ahn Hyun-Soo (KOR) competes in the men's 500m semifinal during the short track competition at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin (ITA) @Franck Fife/AFP
Not to be outdone, the USA’s Ohno secured his place in Olympic lore at Vancouver 2010. The already two-time Champion won a further three medals to become the most decorated Short Track speed skater to date – his haul of eight medals was equalled by Ahn (by then representing Russia) at Sochi 2014.
Korean brilliance
Four countries – the Republic of Korea, China, Canada and the United States – have dominated Olympic competition so far, claiming 134 of the 168 medals awarded.

And of those, there is no doubt that Korea is the sport’s powerhouse. With a total of 48 medals, the nation’s skaters have claimed 15 more than their nearest rivals. They also stand alone at the top of the gold medal table, their 24 titles 14 more than those won by Chinese skaters.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union