Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
#ShortTrackWorldTour


William Dandjinou (CAN)may have already won four individual golds this season but he saved his very best for the final day of the ISU World Tour Seoul, presented by KB Financial.

The capacity Mokdong Ice Rink crowd were treated to a masterclass from the runaway men’s ISU Crystal Globe race leader on World Ice Skating Day. And, given the non-stop noise, they loved every minute of it.

It may have helped the local mood that the day started with some home success,Kim GilliandPark Jiwonleading the Korean White Tigers to a raucously received mixed team relay triumph.
Park Jiwon (KOR) celebrates after winning the mixed team relay at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul. © ISU

Park then returned to the podium in the final race of the event, the White Tigers claiming bronze in a men’s relay won once again by the Chinese Loongs.

But, as has often been the case this season, Dandjinou was the undoubted star turn.
Dandjinou the man and the machine

There is no better person than the skater himself to explain exactly how a high-quality men’s 1000m final unfolded.

“I knew the lead was very important, I didn’t wantJens (van 't Wout, the Dutchman who won the first World Tour 1000m in Montreal) to have the lead too early, so I managed to grab it from him,” Dandjinou said.

“And then(Roberts) Kruzbergs(Latvia's silver medalist in that Montreal season-starter) coming on the outside of me was kind of to my advantage. I knew he would put some hammer (down) and the fast pace would prevent other passes.

“Then I know Kruzbergs is a very powerful skater so I needed to surprise him a little bit, so that’s what I tried to do (with an out to in pass). Then when I looked up I saw we had three or four (laps to go) and I knew Kruzbergs was decelerating so people behind might be slowed down by him and he couldn’t immediately come again. So, I thought maybe this is the best time to drop the hammer to avoid them all coming back to me.

“It may have been less of a gamble to wait because they still had three laps to come back. But I didn’t feel comfortable waiting any longer.”

That was it. Dandjinou accelerated away from the field and despite sterling efforts from eventual silver medallist van 't Wout and home favourite Jang Sungwoo (bronze medalist), the Canadian Ice Maple romped to yet another gold.


William Dandjinou (CAN) celebrates winning the men's 1000m at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul. © ISU

Five individual and three relay golds have helped the Dandjinou build a remarkable 326-point lead over nearest challenger Park in the ISU Crystal Globe standings. Even better for the man himself is where he is headed to as an athlete.

“It’s about always being able to be a little bit artistic and flexible with some cues that guide you through,” Dandjinou said. “It gets easier with experience and that’s what I am trying to build for upcoming (Olympic) Games. To be a well-greased machine for when that event comes around.”

Crowd cheer home success

The ever-smiling Park may well be Dandjinou’s nearest competitor when the 2026 Milano-Cortina Olympic Games come around. But on Sunday, last season’s men’s No.1 had to settle for team success.

Curiously, for such a strong Short Track nation, the Korean White Tigers have struggled of late in the mixed team relay. But in the first final of the day, a formidable quartet gave the locals just what they wanted.

After Park jumped out into a lead with eight laps to go, that was it. Fueled by that wild support, the home heroes pulled away.Liu Shaoang (CHN)did give the crowd a slight fright, attempting to come up Park’s inside on the final corner but it was good enough only for silver, with the Canadian Ice Maples taking bronze.

“It was an amazing race, it’s been a very long time for Korea – no gold in the mixed relay,” said Park, who raised his fists in the air throughout a lap of honour. “Yesterday I got a silver medal but I wanted gold and to have the ceremony in front of my mum and dad and home fans.”

‘It’s crazy, things happen so fast’

The Liu brothers – Shaoang andShaolin– were others who had to rely on the relay for gold in Seoul. Unable to challenge Dandjinou in the individual events, the Chinese Loongs have pinpointed the relays as chances to claw back some ISU Team Crystal Globe points on the Canadian Ice Maples. And it is working. In the two men’s and two mixed relays in the Beijing and Seoul World Tours, the Chinese Loongs have three golds and a silver.
Liu Shaolin (CHN) competing in the men's 5000m relay at the ISU Short Track World Tour at Mokdong Ice Rink. © ISU

“We are fighting so hard," said Shaolin after helping the Loongs to another men’s relay triumph. "It’s really motivating if the team can get a success. This is a team sport, we train together, we live together and we fight together.”

Not that it was a straightforward race. First the Italian Gladiators fell, causing the crowd to gasp and then disaster, as far as the fans were concerned, when the Korean White Tigers took a tumble. All part of a race that sums up Short Track’s glorious appeal.

“It’s crazy, things happen so fast,” Shaolin said with a smile. “You just hear the sound of everyone roaring and you don’t know what’s going on, you have to look back and you pray it’s not your teammate.”

Despite the Chinese Loongs and the Korean White Tigers roaring so loudly in the relays, the Canadian Ice Maples continue to top the Team Crystal Globe standings, 668 points clear. It helps when you have a skater like Dandjinou on your side.


ISU Men’s Individual men’s Crystal Globe standings:
1. William Dandjinou – 812 points
2. Park Jiwon – 586 points
3. Jens van ’t Wout – 580 points

ISU Team Crystal Globe standings:
1. Canadian Ice Maples – 6116 points
2. Korean White Tigers – 5448 points
3. Dutch Lions – 4120 points

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!



Skating updates delivered to your inbox