It took a lot to upstage last season’s world No.1Park Jiwon (KOR)on the opening day of the ISU Short Track World Tour event in Beijing. ButSun Long (CHN)did just that.Racing with a roaring Chinese dragon emblazoned across his chest, the hometown hero first grabbed bronze in a high-class 1500m final before blazing to a gloriously unexpected gold medal in the 500m. All to the wild delight of a boisterous Capital Indoor Stadium crowd.

“He skated so good in the 500m and great in the 1500m too,” said teammateLiu Shaoang (CHN). “Congrats to him. He did really, really good.”
Sun Long of China after competing in the men's 500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Beijing, China. © ISU

Park cuts Dandjinou’s Crystal Globe lead

It all started in the 1500m, Saturday’s first final. Facing two Korean White Tigers and a pair of Canadian Ice Maples, Sun was delighted to emerge with a bronze medal. It took all of the reigning world champion’s tactical nous to stay out of trouble in a dramatic final, but in the end he could only watch on as the undoubted leaders of this season’s pack went head-to-head.

As imperious as defending ISU Crystal Globe champion Park was last season, soWilliam Dandjinou (CAN)has been dominating this time out. But, as he promised last month in Montreal, the Korean was back to his rampaging best in Beijing.

With six laps of the final to go, the duo took control. After casually swapping the lead for a while, Park flew out on his own at the bell. With the Korean renowned for his defence, Dandjinou knew he was in trouble. And so it proved, despite the 1.91m tall Danjinou attempting to use all his height on the line.

“Yesterday I dreamt it was gold,” a smiling Park revealed. “I dreamt I raced the final 10 times, again, again, again and today, this morning when I woke up I only thought ‘gold, gold, gold’. And now, I have gold.“I think it was my best race of the season. Dandjinou has very long legs, so I was stretching 100%. I am short.”
Park Jiwon (KOR) competing in the men's 1500m at the ISUShort Track World Tourin Beijing, China. © ISU
The gold medal helped Park, who also made the 500m final, cut Dandjinou’s advantage at the top of the ISU Crystal Globe standings. But the Canadian Ice Maple still has a commanding advantage, leading 624 points to 396.

“Some mistakes today,"Dandjinou said."Not every race is going to be good but I got some solid points for the team and for myself for the rankings. I can’t be overly disappointed with myself. Not perfect but it will never be.

“He told me he was going to be ready in Asia and he came ready, so props to him. I will try to do my best to outperform him tomorrow.”

Crowd roar sprint heroes home

The rankings leader was unable to join Park in the sprint final in Beijing, having slipped in a lightening quick semi-final. So, after winning the B final in some style, he sat and watched his rivals.

They produced a race worthy of attention.

With Liu joining Sun in the final, all eyes were on how the Chinese Loongs would attempt to control matters.Steven Dubois (CAN), the 2022 Olympic bronze medallist, explained what happened next.

“I tried to separate them at the start," he said. "I knew I could swing Shaoang and then my plan was to pass Sun Long as soon as I could, if I had the space but they knew."It really felt like that, when they saw I was coming, Sun Long really closed the gap so I couldn’t go anywhere and I couldn’t take the position. It was brilliant on their part.”
Sun Long (CHN) skating ahead of the group in the men's 500m at the ISUShort Track World Tourat Capital Indoor Stadium. © ISU

Eventually the Canadian Ice Maple did find a way past Liu but there was no way he was catching Sun.

“Our plan is always get the gold, so I was trying to focus on the first few laps to protect,” said Liu, who held on for his first bronze of the season.

“It was a crazy race. Everybody skated like 39.89 (seconds per lap).”

Silver medallist Dubois revealed that he and Dandjinou, who shared the sprint golds between them during the Montreal World Tour double-header, are actively gunning for the 500m world record. At this rate, it will not be long until someone takes the 39.505-second mark held by another Chinese superstar,Wu Dajing.

Given their improved performances so far in Beijing, it may well be a compatriot of his who does it.

“We are getting better,” Liu said. “The first two competitions we were a little tired, we overtrained. But this competition we already gained so much power back.”

The hero of the day could not agree more.

“Today was good,” Sun said. “Maybe (in) the 1500m I lacked speed but I had passion in the 500m.”

The men’s best will go again on Sunday, as they race the 1000m plus the 5000m relay and the 2000m mixed relay.
About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union