#ShortTrackWorldTour
Canadian Ice MapleWilliam Dandjinouscored enough points to secure the prestigious ISU Crystal Globe on Saturday at the Forum Assago in Milan, but he had to do it the hard way.
Dandjinou struggled a little in the 1500m, only making the B final. It briefly put his main rival,Jens van ‘t Wout, who won that race, back in the frame for a Crystal Globe comeback.
But the Canadian rankings leader skated intelligently through the 500m rounds, and cruised cautiously in the A final to ensure he had the numbers to secure the Short Track World Tour’s top prize.

William Dandjinou (CAN, top) secured the ISU Crystal Globe with a day to spare despite only making the 1500m B final, won by teammate Maxime Laoun (29). © ISU
It was a smart conclusion to Dandjinou’s season-long campaign that has been packed with thrilling victories.
With another race and the relays on Sunday, the new champion was not ready for emotions yet.
“I am not going to tear up today, I will wait for tomorrow,”Dandjinou said.“But these guys are super strong to race against. With the margin I had, for them to bring it so close, it is special. I hope we get to experience this level of racing for years to come.”
Sun Longof the Chinese Loongs, meanwhile, won the 500m in fine style, to suggest that he should be a force to be reckoned with again next season.
Van ‘t Wout lays down early challenge with classy 1500m win
Dandjinou could be forgiven some nerves as he edged closer to the big prize. He was drawn in a tricky semifinal for the 1500m – including van ‘t Wout andJang Sungwoo, who excels over this distance, and who also just collected a brilliant 1000m gold medal at the Asian Games.
The pair shut down Dandjinou’s late challenge, and he was consigned to the B final.
The Dutch Lion then skated smartly in the A final, making a late burst to finish ahead ofHayashi Koseiof the Japanese Ninjas, who got silver, and Sungwoo, who took bronze.

Dandjinou's main rival Jens van 't Wout put the pressure on the Canadian with victory in the 1500m. © ISU
It confirmed another World Tour gold for van ‘t Wout – his fourth this season – and put a little pressure on the rankings leader.
“It was a fun race,”said the Dutch Lion.“I knew the Japanese racers were going to try and lead together, so I wanted to use then as a launchpad, to get some speed and get away.
“I felt strong, kept calm, and I knew I had the legs. It kind of worked, as well as any plan can in Short Track. So I’m happy. The semifinal was even more difficult, with all the challenges.
“I like this venue, it is like a colosseum.”
Jang was also delighted, having tussled with van ‘t Wout in both the semi and final.“I’m happy to win a medal here, especially in this stadium where the Milan Olympic games will be held,”he said.
“Just getting to the final was difficult, trying against Jens and William. The semifinal was like a final.
Last week I was winning a gold medal at the Asian Games, so my goal is always gold.
“But this is good. I want to go to the Milan Olympics and compete against all these guys and win gold.”
Sun shines in 500m, but it’s Dandjinou’s day
The crowd wondered whether Dandjinou might feel the pressure as the second race of the afternoon rolled around. There were gasps as he hit the deck in the semifinal, but he was adjudged to have been fouled, and got advanced to the A final.
Dandjinou prudently decided to avoid going for glory, and was satisfied with fourth place. The Globe was his.

In the 500m final Dandjinou, left, safely negotiated fourth place behind winner Sun Long (CHN) to earn enough points to seal his Crystal Globe victory. © ISU
“After the 1500m, it was just risk management. I was just happy to make it to the final,” hesaid.
“In the 1500m, the semi was hard, the level was super high. It was good racing. Finishing third in that field is not bad. It was a good race. But I’ll be ready for the World Championships in that distance.
“Tomorrow it’s just one more race and I’ll have fun and enjoy the ride. It is a blessing to perform on this stage.”
The Globe trophy itself will be going to the family home.“I will just put it at my parent’s house,”he said.“I have a lot of roommates, I don’t want to take any risks – I trust my parents more than I trust myself. It is a relief to win it.”
Sun put in an explosive performance to emerge victorious in the 500m, ahead of the rapidly improvingTeun Boer, who got silver, andPietro Sighelof the Italian Gladiators, who took bronze.
Sun hopes his 500m gold can be repeated in next year's Olympic Short Track competition, while both Teun Boer (NED, left) and Pietro Sighel (ITA, right) were impressed with the Milan venue. © ISU
“I am very happy because it is the first time competing in the venue of the Olympics,”said Sun.“I think we can win more golds in this venue. I hope we will have even better performances up next.”
Boer added:“Silver is pretty good, I felt good on the ice today. This is a really good test event, how it will feel being here at the Olympics.”
The setting also impressed the home athlete.“This is very special for us, I’ve been looking forward to this event all season,”said Sighel.“It is amazing, to race at my home, with our fans. It’s a first and it is special, so this medal is for them.”

Men’s ISU Crystal Globe standings
William Dandjinou -1104
Jens van ‘t Wout - 950
Steven Dubois - 740

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union