#ShortTrackSkating

In the pressure-packed, high-performance environment of the Olympic Winter Games, many athletes approach their events with a single-minded focus on owning the podium.
Despite being a Short Track Speed Skating medal contender, however, Canada’sKim Boutinhas a more basic goal in mind for Beijing 2022: to simply remember her races.

Kim Boutin (CAN) in action at the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games © International Skating Union (ISU)
Boutin’s first Olympic experience at PyeongChang 2018 left her with mixed emotions, as she won medals in all three individual events but received death threats from fans from the Republic of Korea after she was moved up from fourth to third in the 500m following the disqualification ofChoi Min-Jeong(KOR).
“The last Games was pretty amazing but it feels kind of scary for me at this point too because of the death threats that I received,” Boutin said.
“Actually, I didn’t remember my Games a lot.”
A post shared by ISU Speed Skating (@isuspeedskating)
Ahead of Beijing 2022, Boutin is trying to achieve the right balance between results-based goals and personal fulfillment.
“I want to embrace this moment,” she said. “For me it’s the approach that I want but I know that I want to reach goals and I know that I want to succeed. I want to be there and I want to remember all my races.”
To gain the perspective she sought ahead of her second Olympic campaign, Boutin took an extended mental health break from the sport in the pre-Olympic season, opting not to participate at the 2021 ISU World Short Track Championships.
“It was to understand that skating is not everything,” the 26-year-old said of her time off the ice.
“The season of 2018 was a really good season for me but also it was a lot of pressure that I put on myself. Right now, I’m trying to embrace those challenges with more compassion.”
After returning to the ice this season, Boutin worked her way back into top form during the 2021/22 World Cup campaign, especially in the 500m, in which she won a bronze and a gold at the final two events.
“It felt really good to see that, ‘OK, you can make it again,’” she said.

Canada's Kim Boutin celebrates in the 500m at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dordrecht, 2021 © International Skating Union (ISU)
“Naturally I’m more strength and power, and I need to train a lot to be stronger at the 1500m and the 1000m,” she said when analyzing why she was able to reach peak performance earlier in the 500m.
Boutin also took World Cup silver in the 1000m at the final event in Dordrecht, showing that she will be a medal contender at multiple distances in Beijing despite having to adjust her gameplan this season.
“I think it’s (been) a lot of adaptation,” she said. “I feel like my type of race was really to get in front and be strong and I feel like I need some laps in my legs (to do that).
“So I need to change a little bit more my strategy to feel strong at the end. I feel like I’m going to improve every week until the Games.”
The spread-out Olympic schedule in Beijing will allow Boutin to skate all three distances, which she did only once at this season’s four World Cup events.
“At the Games it’s easier for everyone because it’s race and day rest, race and day rest,” she said. “How I feel right now with my situation with the load, I think it’s going to be good”.
To reach the top of the podium in Beijing, Boutin will have to toppleSuzanne Schulting(NED), who won all three individual golds at the 2021 World Championships in Boutin’s absence.
But despite Schulting’s favoritism, Boutin’s focus on mental health and new-found approach to the sport will stand her in good stead once she hits the ice in Beijing.
“For sure, Suzanne is strong and she’s going to have all the good spots for the Games, but I feel I need to focus on my strategy to get there in the right way for the Games,” she said.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union