#ShortTrackSkating

The second ISU Short Track World Cup event of the season takes place at the Maurice-Richard Arena, Montreal (CAN), from 27 to 29 October. This is part two of a double-header in the city, as the athletes began the season last weekend at the same venue.
In the Women’s events, four skaters stood out:Xandra Velzeboer(NED),Kim Gilli(KOR),Hanne Desmet(BEL) andKristen Santos-Griswold(USA), while the Men’s racing was dominated by the Republic of Korea –Park Ji Won(KOR),Hwang Dae Heon(KOR) andKim Gun Woo(KOR) in particular, whileShaoang Liu(CHN) made a golden return to racing.
Hosts Canada, meanwhile, will look to improve on a steady start to the season.
Fantastic four seek to prevail again
A new order is forming in female Short Track, and Xandra Velzeboer (NED) is leading the way. At the end of last season she became ISU World Champion in the 500m and 1000m, and would have been in the running to win the ISU Crystal Globe – this year sponsored by Dunamu (read morehere) – had she not endured a mid-season injury.
Velzeboer came flying out the blocks in Montreal. She fell in the 1000m (1) on Saturday but, in the 500m final on Sunday, demonstrated why many consider her the heir toSuzanne Schulting’s position as the planet’s dominant Short Tracker. It was a show of shock and awe – currently nobody can match her raw velocity in the sprint.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) takes the lead in the women's 500m during the season-opening ISU World Cup Short Track meet in Montreal, Canada © ISU
Hanne Desmet (BEL) meanwhile has got a new steel to her game. She took the 1500m title with a brilliant late pass on runaway leader Kim Gilli (KOR) – and only lost the 1000m (2) on Sunday by a fraction. Her cool and consistency suggest she will be deadly across the distances again this weekend.
Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) admits she has been working hard on the mental side of her game – she’s always been incredibly fast – and, like Desmet, showed a tangible new sense of serenity on the ice at the curtain-raiser, winning the 1000m (1) in style.

Hanne Desmet (BEL), Women's 1500m gold medalist at the season-opening ISU World Cup Short Track meet in Montreal, Canada © ISU
The 19-year-old Kim, meanwhile – unmissable with dyed grey hair, - has a fearless, rock ‘n’ roll approach to racing, and thundered past both Santos-Griswold and Desmet to take the 1000m (2) on the line.
It’s hard to split this quartet on attitude and ability, suggesting another unpredictable and pulse-quickening weekend of racing to come in Quebec.Courtney Sarault(CAN) will want to improve – the brilliant Canadian is many people’s favorite for the ISU Crystal Globe but had a relatively quiet first weekend.
Elsewhere,Selma Poutsma(NED),Martina Valcepina(ITA),Corinne Stoddard Corinne Stoddard(USA) andSeo Whi Min(KOR) all showed moments of magic that can give them confidence heading into Montreal’s second meet.
Lius look to build momentum but Koreans still lead Men’s competition
Four big names made a splash on their returns to Short Track this weekend.
Grabbing most of the headlines were the sport’s blockbuster brothers – Shaoang Liu (CHN) andShaolin Sandor Liu(CHN). Returning from a year out after their switch in nationalities, watching them race in the red of the People's Republic of China rather than the black of Hungary took a little getting used to.
But the pair have lost none of their on-ice aggression, or off-ice crowd-charming powers. Both racing at full-tilt, Shaolin had a few mishaps. But Shaoang won the 500m with an imperious display, and the duo combined to help their new nation grab 2000m Mixed Relay gold. They’ll roll into Montreal part deux with trademark confidence.

Shaoang Liu (CHN) at the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montreal, Canada © ISU
It was Republic of Korea’s weekend, result-wise, however, with two returnees to the team catching the eye.
Fans were shocked when Hwang Dae Heon (KOR) didn’t make the cut for the Korea squad last season: he’d won Olympic 1500m gold medal at Beijing 2022 just months before.
That’s testament to the astonishing levels of competition for the right to don the Korea kit – but Hwang turned on the style in Montreal, grabbing 1500m gold and looking competitive across the distances.
Also back in black and white was Kim Gun Woo (KOR), who hadn’t been on an ISU World Cup podium since 2019. He emerged victorious in a rough-and-tumble 1000m (2), and looks back to his razor-sharp best from four years ago.

Out in front: Hwang Dae Heon (KOR) at the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montreal, Canada © ISU
All four men will carry these excellent starts into race weekend two, but last year’s overall champion, Park Ji Won (KOR), however, is on ominous form.
His calculating, efficient race craft, and last-minute turn of speed, which made him the #1 skater of 2022/23, were on full display in Canada, where he picked up gold in the 1000m (1).
The home athletes will be looking for improvement. Steven Dubois (CAN) picked up a silver medal last weekend in the 1000m (1), Pascal Dion (CAN) showed his class here and there, while young guns William Dandjinou (CAN) and Felix Roussel (CAN) thrilled the crowd with some buccaneering displays.
The Canadians then combined seamlessly to secure the 5000m Relay title, but individual gold medals are needed this weekend if they’re to declare the start of the season a major success and really get the Quebec crowd firing.
Also looking in dangerous form? Stijn Desmet (BEL), Luca Spechenhauser (ITA) and Quentin Fercoq (FRA).
A fine weekend of racing awaits.
For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men

Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women

Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification races on Friday and repechage races (Saturday and Sunday morning), the ISU will offer a live stream with English commentary on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Only for the Friday qualification races and repechage races on Saturday and Sunday morning (local time), no geoblocking will apply.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union