From Champions stamping their authority on the ice to new names bursting into prominence, the 2019/20 Short Track Speed Skating season was chock-full of gasp-inducing performances. But for many, it was the return to competition of DutchmanSjinkie Knegtthat really tugged at the heartstrings.
Thirteen months after suffering two horrific freak accidents within the space of just two weeks, two-time Olympic medalist Knegt stepped back on to the ice. In front of his own fans in Dordrecht, the 30-year-old swiftly showed what the world had been missing.
When you hear you can race again after 402 day of recovering. #thecomeback #shorttrackteamnl #wcshorttrack2020 #dordrecht
A post shared bySjinkie Knegt(@sjinkie) onFeb 10, 2020 at 5:34am PST
Despite it being his first ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating appearance since late-2018, Knegt delighted the packed stands by sweeping through the 1500m rounds. Only a surgingLee June Seo(KOR) and a determinedSteven Dubois(CAN) prevented the Dutch hero from powering straight back into an A final.
No matter, he simply went on and won the B final with ease.
I never thought that winning a B final could feel as it felt today. #greattobeback #shorttrackteamnl #wcshorttrack2020 #dordrecht #62 #backontrack
A post shared bySjinkie Knegt(@sjinkie) onFeb 15, 2020 at 11:17am PST
“Today I showed that I am on the right track,” a contented Knegt told the ISU after the race.
Thankfully, it has been like that since the moment he first pulled his skates back on, after an agonizing break of six months while his body recovered from a series of severe burns and a serious leg injury.

Sjinkie Knegt (NED) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (NED) 2020©International Skating Union (ISU)
“At some point, I didn’t even know if I would be able to skate again,” the four-time ISU World and 12-time ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Champion admitted in Dordrecht. “But all I wanted was to get back on the ice.”

Sjinkie Knegt (NED) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (NED) 2020©International Skating Union (ISU)
He went to reach the semi-finals of the 1000m (2) before stepping back on to an ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating podium after helping his teammates grab silver in the Men’s 5000m Relay. Not a bad return but, worryingly for his rivals, Knegt has his sights set far higher.
“I want to be better than I was before my injury,” he said. “I’m not there yet but I think it’s possible to get there. I’m still improving every day.”
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union