
#ShortTrackSkating
Arms outstretched, back arched and roaring to the heavens,Park Ji Won(KOR) let out a season’s worth of emotion as he won the Men’s 1000m on the final day of the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating season in Gdansk, Poland, to secure his second successive Crystal Globe.
But it was mighty close.

Park Ji Won celebrates the 1000m win that sealed his second Crystal Globe in Gdansk, Poland © ISU

For the past three months the lead in the race to be crowned the Men’s World Cup Champion has changed back and forth between Park and Canada’sSteven Dubois.
And while Park started the final day of competition with a 69-point advantage and cruised through the 1000m rounds, he knew by the time he lined up for the final that anything but gold would leave the door open for Dubois. This after the Canadian had secured his place in the 500m (2) final.
Going all out for gold
With all that pressure on his shoulders, 27-year-old Park simply did what he does best.
“I knew I had to be first, to get in front and stay there,” said Park whose victory, combined with Dubois’ win in the sprint, gave him his second ISU Crystal Globe presented by Dunamu by a mere 19 points.

Park Ji Won won five individual World Cups this season on his way to lifting the Crystal Globe© ISU

“I wasn’t too nervous. I just focused on gold. I always had confidence in myself. I am more happy this time to keep it than I was to win it last season.”
Despite the presence of two compatriots in the final, Park insisted that there had been no ‘team tactics’. A factKim Gun Woo(KOR) who attempted desperately to overtake Park on the final lap, was happy to confirm.

Kim Gun Woo battled to silver in the 1000m behind his teammate Park in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

“I was trying to win the race,” the silver medallist said with a smile, before explaining just what makes Park, a five-time individual World Cup winner this season, so good.
“Park Ji Won is the best racer, from the front he is very hard to pass. I have to train harder.”
Bittersweet success
Dubois, who went out and won the 500m ahead ofDenis Nikisha(KAZ) despite being aware even that would not be quite enough to claim a longed-for first Crystal Globe, knows exactly how Kim feels.

Steven Dubois sped to victory in the final 500m race of the World Cup season in Gdansk, Poland © ISU

“Nineteen points kind of hurts, I could have made up some points over the past weekends and competitions,” the Canadian said ruefully.
“I mean it was a bit bittersweet because I won the first gold in 500m this season. It was a long time coming so I am super happy about that, but still.”
Relay rivals
Dubois did get some measure of payback in the final event of the day, the Men’s 5000m relay.
Just like the individual battle, Dubois’ Canada and Park’s Republic of Korea were locked together at the top of the relay standings, having each gathered 320 points during the season. China’s tally also stood at 320 points but with a young, largely second-string team in Gdansk, their quartet had not made the final, leaving the ice clear for a head-to-head battle.

Canada came out on top in a head-to-head fight with Korea for the Men's 5000m Relay gold in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

In fact, it turned into Dubois v Park once more, with the Canadian this time holding off his great rival over the final two laps.
“I was really excited to race against Ji Won at the end of the relay, it brings a bit of closure to the season, a bit of revenge,” Dubois said. “We were super hyped, we knew we had to beat them.”

Steven Dubois described victory in the 5000m Relay as a 'bit of revenge' in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

Young stars rising
Japan claimed bronze to complete an encouraging day with 20-year-oldHayashi Koseihaving won bronze in the Men’s 1000m, his first-ever individual World Cup medal.
But with all eyes now turning to theWorld Championships in Rotterdam (NED) from 15-17 March, the final word goes to a young man who will never forget racing in Gdansk.
“Even when I was younger it was not my goal to get an Olympic medal, my goal was to make Polish Short Track great, that we make a difference in the world of Short Track and I think our team makes this difference now,” 20-year-oldMichal Niewinskisaid after winning 500m (2) bronze, Poland’s second medal of the weekend.

Michal Niewinski's 500m bronze was Poland's second medal of their home World Cup in Gdansk© ISU

“It’s really amazing. We don’t have any legacy in Short Track so now we are making the history it feels super great.”
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union