#ShortTrackSkating
The ISU is releasing the entry quotas, qualifying times and details for ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships for the season 2020/21.
In this communication you will find Entry Quotas for the following Championships:
-ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2021
-ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2021
As well as the Qualifying Times & Seeding Times for ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2021.
Please note that qualifying times skated during International or National time trials competitions will not be accepted anymore.
* Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and following the cancellation or postponement of several national and International Competitions, results achieved since July 1, 2018 will be considered as valid.

ENTRY DEADLINES
In accordance with Rule 295, paragraphs 4 b), c) and e), the number of Competitors, substitutes, coaches and Team leaders shall be entered at least six (6) weeks before the first day of the Competition. The number of other personnel travelling with the team shall also be communicated separately at least six (6) weeks before the ISU Event concerned.ISU Members are seriously requested to enter only the number of Skaters they actually intend to send to the ISU Championships concerned. The names of the Competitors and substitutes names per category with their International Registration Number, the names of the Competitors for each of the respective individual distances and the confirmation of participation in the Relay shall be communicated to the organizing committee at the latest on the fifth day before the first race of the Championships concerned. For Post Entries Rule 115, paragraph 6 of the General Regulations applies.
The exact deadlines are issued in the Official Announcement for each ISU Championships.
Please also study Rule 131 and ISU Communications No. 1628 and 2142, point 9 “Entries/Declaration for Competitors and Officials entering ISU Events” or any update of this Communication. An updated Declaration form is available on our website www.isu.org.
In line with Rule 115, paragraph 6 of the General Regulations, ISU Members are reminded that post entries might be accepted by the ISU President only in case of clearly and truly exceptional circumstances.
To read the full ISU Communication 2356, please click on the link on the right.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union