The 2017 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships kicked off today in Rotterdam, Netherlands with the qualification heats for the following three individual distances: Ladies and Men 500 m, 1000 m, 1500 m. These championships are held at the Rotterdam Ahoy arena.
Reigning Lady ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Champion, Min Jeong Choi (KOR), started her quest for a third consecutive title on the right foot. She qualified for the semi-final round in the 1500 m event and the quarter-final rounds in the 500 m and 1000 m distances. Her teammate Suk Hee Shim did the same as well. The local fans will be looking forward to  cheering on Dutch skaters Suzanne Schulting and Rianne de Vries, both of who have successfully qualified through to the next round in all three distances. Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) had a strong first day, qualifying as well for the next round in all three distances, and          setting the second fastest time of the day in the 1500 m. Elise Christie (GBR) skated the fastest time of the day in the 500 m distance, allowing her to qualify in the quarter-finals for the distance. She was also successful in qualifying through the next round in the 1500 m and 1000 m events. Arianna Fontana (ITA), a six-time Lady ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Champion, is another skater to watch this weekend: she was successful in qualifying through to the next round in all three distances. Kexin Fan (CHN) was the only one of the top contenders who had a challenging day, receiving a penalty in the 1000 m event. She did however qualify for the next round in the other two distances.
On the Men’s side, the reigning ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Champion, Tianyu Han (CHN), successfully qualified through to the next round in all three distances: tomorrow, he will compete in the Men’s 1500 m semi-final round and the 500 m quarter-final round. Charles Hamelin (CAN) clocked the third fastest times of the day in both the 500 m and 1500 m, to successfully qualify through to the next round in all three distances. The Liu brothers from Hungary also had a good first day, having both successfully qualified through to the next round in all three distances. Shaoang Liu skated the fastest time of the day in the 500 m while Shaolin Sandor skated the third fastest time of the day in the 1000 m. Six-time ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Champion Victor An (RUS) and his teammate Semen Elistratov, who is a two- time ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Champion, were other top championship contenders who had a successful first day. Finally, the home crowd favorite Sjinkie Knegt (NED) began his quest to regain the World championship title on the right foot: he skated the fastest time of the day in the 1000 m and the second fastest time of the day in the 500 m.
Racing resumes on Saturday with the Ladies and Men 1500 m semi-finals and finals, 500 m quarter finals, semi-finals and finals and the relay semi-finals.
The ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships have both a single distance and allround format. A total of 10 World titles are up for grabs, Ladies and Men 500m, 1000m, 1500m, allround and Team Relay.
The allround classification is based on the results of each skater in the three individual distances 500m, 1000m and 1500m. After the completion of the three distances the top eight point scorers and ties on the eighth position will skate the 3000m Super Final. For the individual distances the final points 34, 21, 13, 8, 5, 3, 2 and 1 are awarded to Final A and Final B Skaters in descending order. In the case of a penalty or did not finish in the Final A, the skater(s) concerned will be awarded points equal to the winner of the Final B. In the case of a penalty in the Final B, the skater(s) concerned will not be awarded any points. No points are awarded to skaters who receive a yellow or red card or did not start the race.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union