#ShortTrackSkating
The home crowd celebrated their first gold of the KB Financial Group ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Seoul as the unstoppablePark Ji Won(KOR) won the 1500m before Italy’sPietro Sighelsprinted to eternal glory.
There is simply no stopping Park this season, as the all-conquering racer claimed the world title in the Men’s 1500m at the KB Financial Group ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023 on Saturday.
Park headed into the event brimming with confidence on the back of an incredibly dominant season, and immediately delivered once more - giving the host country its first gold medal at these World Championships in Seoul.
In front of a raucous home crowd at the Mokdong Ice Rink, Park showed his usual swagger to leave a star-studded field stunned, with Sighel claiming silver ahead of bronze medallistPascal Dion(CAN).

Park Ji Won (KOR) continued his dominant season with victory in the 1500m in front of a raucous home crowd @ISU
In the first event of the competition, Park took the lead halfway through the race and never relinquished his place up front. Dion was moved up to third following a penalty for his teammateSteven Dubois(CAN).
“It was my first opportunity to win a world title here, so of course I immediately went for it. I can’t put into words how happy I’m feeling right now. It’s so exciting to get a world title in Seoul,” Park said.
“It gives me so much more strength with all the fans cheering for me and showing such an amazing support.
“I didn’t feel that I was going to win with six laps to go, but on the fourth lap I knew that the world title was going to be mine.”
Park won the first-ever Crystal Globe trophy to conclude his World Cup campaign as the undeniable No.1 and wants to continue to cement his name in Short Track history.
“It’s been a great journey for me so far. I deserve to be in the place where I’m at right now and want to show everyone I’m the best,” Park said.
“This is the perfect start for me. Now I want to go on and win gold in the 1000m as well. I expect nothing less.”

Pietro Sighel (ITA), left, took silver, with Canada's Pascal Dion taking bronze following a penalty for teammate Steven Dubois @ISU
The Seoul-born racer will have to be at his best again, however, as Dion hopes he has what it takes to put a stop to Park’s reign.
“If can beat him in the 1000m? I’m looking forward to facing him again in that distance tomorrow. It’d be amazing to keep him from winning in front of his own crowd,” Dion said.
“I wanted to challenge Park towards the ends of this race already. I skated really well, but that little bump with Dubois made me lose some speed.
“I’m still very happy to get a medal here. Let’s see what I can do in the next events.”
Sighel sprints to glory on world stage
For one skater in particular, however, the day was going to become even better, as Italy’s speed sensation Sighel went on to add a maiden world title in the 500m to his silver medal secured in the 1500m only two hours earlier.
Dubois stormed to a blistering start and looked to be on his way to gold, but Sighel powered through and found a way to out-stretch the Canadian at the finish line to end a thrilling race, withJens van ‘t Wout(NED) taking bronze.
Sighel entered the World Championships as the European Champion in the sprint distance having clocked an eye-catching performance, and now demonstrated he is also the fastest out there on the world stage.

European 500m Champion Pietro Sighel (ITA) out-stretched Steven Dubois (CAN) on the line to add the World title @ISU
“This is the best possible result. I’m so emotional. I couldn’t imagine doing this before the race. It’s hard to prepare yourself for a new event after just getting a medal, but I did it,” Sighel said.
“It was always going to be a long day, but the 500m is my favorite distance, so I tried to stay relaxed and do my best. It’s amazing.

Dubois, left, took silver after a blistering start in the 500m was overhauled by Sighel. Jens van ‘t Wout (NED) pipped the field to take bronze @ISU
“The speed during the final wasn’t that fast. So I could still give it my all going into the last corner. I’m not realizing yet what I’ve just done. That will probably come when I get back to my hotel room.
“But I don’t have time to celebrate. There’s still more to come. After this weekend I can organize a party.”
In the 500m Final A,Lin Xiaojun(CHN) received an equipment violation penalty because he was not wearing a transponder. It is the responsibility of all athletes to wear the transponder, that is detectable by the timing services provider and records their time. Lin failed to do so.
Men’s racing continues in the South Korean capital city for the closing day of the World Championships with the 1000m, Mixed Relay, and 5000m Relay finals on Sunday.
Where to watch
Viewers can watch the KB Financial Group ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to Watch webpagehere.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union