Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
#ShortTrackSkating

Hong Kyung Hwan(KOR) celebrated his mother’s birthday in style with a convincing win in the 1500m (1), keeping his promise of handing her a gold medal when he next sees her.
Hong powered his way to victory, leavingStijn Desmet(BEL) and bronze medalistKim Tae Sung(KOR) in his wake.
“I’m so happy with this win,” Hong said. “I promised my mom I was going to get gold today. It was her birthday yesterday. This is the best way to celebrate.
“It was a good race. I hope I’ll be able to keep this up.”

Hong Kyung Hwan (KOR) takes gold in the 1500m (1) © International Skating Union
Desmet was equally pleased with his performance, as he bagged an individual World Cup medal for the first time since claiming 500m silver in Dordrecht (NED) during the 2019/2020 season.
“I positioned myself a bit too far behind the front so I had a lot of catching up to do towards the end of the race,” Desmet said.
“Luckily I was still able to win silver. It’s always a thrill to skate in an A final.
“If I want to compete for gold in a direct battle with the Koreans, I’ll have to make sure my start gets faster. Also I need to be a bit more dominant in defending my place.”

Stijn Desmet (BEL) poses with his medal and his chocolate © International Skating Union
Like all those to make the podium here, not only did Desmet receive a medal he was also handed a Kazakh chocolate bar. But the smiling Belgian said:
“Nothing beats the chocolate from my country – although this will also taste sweet after my race.”
Van ’t Wout’s fast-track Short Track progression
The rise and rise ofJens van ’t Wout(NED) continues in Almaty. He added another World Cup gold medal to his tally, winning the Men’s 1000m in the Halyk Arena on Saturday.
Van ’t Wout is now the proud owner of three gold medals, having won the 1500m and 500m (2) in Salt Lake City (USA) last month. His latest victory underlines his blistering start to the season, and represents a remarkable feat, given the 21-year-old had never made an A final prior to the season’s second ISU World Cup Short Track event.

Jens van ’t Wout (NED) on his way to winning the Men’s 1000m gold medal © International Skating Union
He did it in style, too, battling offPascal Dion(CAN) down the final straight, with the in-formPark Ji Won(KOR) crashing out of the race moments before.Jordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN) snatched bronze.
“Park and I were battling for our position,” Van ’t Wout said.
“I know he likes to be in the front of the pack as well. Then I heard like a crash. I wasn’t sure if it was him but I just went for it and after a bit of a scramble with the Canadian guys I managed to cross the line first.”
Van ’t Wout admitted it felt like a weight had been lifted from his shoulders after the race.
“When we got back from Salt Lake City, I had some time to reflect. I thought about how I was going to approach the next few races as I didn’t want to be a one-shot wonder. That’s why I feel really proud to win gold again.
“This victory shows me that I’m in a good shape. It makes me feel more relaxed as well. I can’t wait to do it again.”

Men’s 1000m medalists, (L-R): Pascal Dion (CAN), Jens van 't Wout (NED), Jordan Pierre-Gilles (CAN) © International Skating Union
Dion had nothing but praise for the young Dutchman and his development on the ice.
“Jens has improved so much,” the 28-year-old Canadian said.
“Last season he was already very strong but perhaps didn’t have the legs to race against us. This year he skates crazy good and is up there with the best.
“I’m happy with the second place. It was a really good race from me as well. I took the last corner a bit too wide unfortunately.
“Jens skated very aggressive, so he deserved the win.”
Racing continues for the Men in Almaty with the 500m, 1500m (2) and 5000m Relay finals on Sunday.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relaywcst
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED
About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox