
#ShortTrackSkating

The stage is set for another thrilling ISU World Cup following last week's event in Beijing, China © ISU

Everything suggests the Short Track Speed Skating year will come to a thrilling finale in Seoul (KOR) from 15-17 December. A roll call of the world’s best skaters proved they are in fine form by excelling in Beijing last weekend in the first of the two back-to-back ISU World Cup events, early reports say the ice is “fast” and another large crowd is gathering.
Add on the fact that hometown talent heads both the men’s and women’s overall season rankings, plus three of the individual distance standings and you can see why the Republic of Korea head coach Ahn Joong-hyun had this to say ahead of competition:
“We are very excited to host this event, we had a good World Cup in Beijing and the team is ready.”
Koreans ready to rule home ice
There is certainly an expectation that local fans inside the Mokdong Ice Rink will have plenty to cheer.Kim Gun Woo(KOR) is enjoying a stellar return to the top table of international competition. After four years away, the Korean has already claimed three World Cup titles, stealing away the headlines from teammatePark Ji Won(KOR). Something unthinkable when the latter was storming to the overall title last season.

Kim Gun Woo continues to dominate this season's World Cup after another gold-medal winning performance in Beijing © ISU

CompatriotKim Gilli(KOR) has been equally as impressive in the women’s section. The 19-year-old has won two golds and two silvers in her four World Cup 1500m races so far.

Kim Gilli made it two golds and two silvers from four 1500m races this season in Beijing, China © ISU
However, while such displays have propelled both Kims to number one positions in the race for the men’s and women’s overall Crystal Globe, presented by Dunamu, there is a more than a glimmer of hope for their rivals. Relatively disappointing second day performances from the duo in Beijing – Kim Gilli faded in the face ofKristen Santos-Griswold’s(USA) relentless 1000m speed, while Kim Gun Woo went out at the quarter-final stage of the 500m (2) – saw their leads significantly reduced.


Kristen Santos-Griswold turned in a dominanat 1000m performance in Beijing, China © ISU

Santos-Griswold, who is proving herself a true all-rounder, now sits just 15 points behind the 19-year-old Korean, withXandra Velzeboer(NED) closing fast in third. Once a speed specialist, the Dutchwoman not only boosted her confidence with a first 1500m World Cup medal in Beijing, but she also has the best of Mokdong vibes to fall back on.
“I have very good memories here, it’s exciting to be back,”
said a grinning Velzeboer who won World Championship titles in the women’s 500m, 1000m and 3000m relay plus the mixed relay in Seoul in March.

Xandra Velzeboer is in good form heading to Seoul © ISU
TeammateSelma Poutsma(NED) is another flying Dutchwoman and the duo’s rivalry in the 500m is likely to be a real highlight.
Canadians aiming to extend winning streak
Not that anyone on the planet is skating better thanJordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN) right now. The Canadian is on a three-strong 500m World Cup-winning streak and could not be happier to be in the Korean capital.

Jordan Pierre-Gilles is going for a fourth straight 500m gold following last week's win in Beijing, China © ISU

“It’s always crazy competing here. Everyone’s really excited. The energy in the stadium is going to be just as good as Beijing,” Pierre-Gilles said.
“The ice is completely different (to Beijing) but it’s exciting. It’s an ice that forgives a little less. If you try and cut your tracks you might lose more speed. It’s harder than Beijing, a little less grip but it has a lot of glide. I think it’s going to be interesting races with outside passes and more mistakes.”
Aside from his sprint success, Pierre-Gilles has also been a key part of the Canada men’s relay team that has won two out of three World Cup races so far. Intriguingly, Korea has yet to win a single World Cup relay title this season, despite being in every A final bar one across the three relay disciplines. It is an anomaly coach Ahn is keen to end this weekend.
The relays are attracted plenty of focus this season, with China head coach Zhang Jing also stressing their importance in Beijing. Her charges currently lead the mixed relay table, while the Netherlands head the women’s rankings. Expect another set of captivating team battles in Seoul.

China are aiming for more relay success to round off the year in Seoul © ISU

Elsewhere Olympic 1000m championLiu Shaoang(CHN) headlines a China team that won nine silver and bronze medals on home ice but just one gold; his in the men’s 1000m. While the reigning men’s 500m world championPietro Sighel(ITA) is another no doubt delighted to be back on the Mokdong ice.
For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union