
Courtney Sarault of the Canadian Ice Maples won her second-straight 1000m gold medal on the ISU Short Track World Tour on Saturday in Montreal.© ISU
Courtney Sarault’s return to the top of Short Track continued at Maurice Richard Arena on Saturday, as once again the Canadian Ice Maple twice crossed the finish line first.
She repeated her 1000m gold from last weekend, with another dazzling performance in an extremely fast race, before taking the anchor leg as the Ice Maples won the 3000m Relay. It sealed a perfect day for the host nation at theISU Short Track World Tour, as Canada won all four gold medals available.
Xandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions andChoi Minjeongof the Korean White Tigers showed fine form in the 1000m, and will prove stern competition to Sarault in the 500m and 1500m respectively on Sunday.
Canadian top again in lightning-fast 1000m
Last weekend, Sarault led from the gun in the 1000m final. This time around, she was five positions back before making a powerful outside pass to take the lead mid-race.
She upped the pace as the rest of the field jockeyed for position. As Choi, Velzeboer andCorinne Stoddardof the USA Eagles battled, Sarault stretched the lead to take the line untroubled.
“It was a good day,”said Sarault.“We were all coming in a bit tired from last weekend, so I tried to focus on doing what I could do. I tried not to think too much about fatigue and it just went really well.”
Also improving incrementally is Choi. The most decorated racer in the field by a mile – she has three Olympic gold medals and four overall World Championships titles – the White Tiger is famously diligent and patient in her preparation, and always peaks around Olympic time.

Choi Minjeong of the Korean White Tigers took silver in a tight 1000m final at the second ISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal on Saturday.© ISU
As she aims for her third consecutive 1500m Olympic gold, it feels as if she is building momentum again. She was smooth in taking the silver medal here.
“I expected the race to be tough, but I gave it my all on the ice, and am glad I got a medal,”she said.“Frankly, I am not 100 per cent right now with my preparations for the Olympics, but we still have time to get in perfect shape for them. It gets harder every year. I have been 10 or 11 years on the ice competing, and every year there is a new generation coming through, a new skater to race. It brings a lot of excitement, but also a lot of pressure.”
How does she stay motivated?“The secret is I am never satisfied. Every moment, every year, I try to do more to push and evolve my limit.”
She draws inspiration from everywhere, including the White Tigers’ new hero,Rim Jongun.
“We all know Rim is a rising star. He is nine years younger than me, and even I get inspired by how he does. He brings energy to the whole team, he gives us all a great vibe.”
Velzeboer, virtually unbeatable in the 500m at the moment, was pleased with a bronze.

Medalists Choi Minjeong (KOR), Courtney Sarault (CAN) and Xandra Velzeboer (NED) at the ISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal.© ISU
“It was a good race for me. I felt like I had something left at the end,”Velzeboer said.“I tried for an outside pass, but the speed was so high, and it was difficult. I wanted to go for the win, and this performance is already way better than last week.
“I want to continue this progress towards the Games. I like a fast 1000m. You have to be super sharp, make the right decisions, and it makes it exciting. One mistake and you can be at the back. It’s so nice to race against Courtney, the level she has at the moment is really high.”
Stoddard, fourth, also showed her steadiness.

Corinne Stoddard (USA) settled for fourth in the 1000m final on Saturday at the ISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal.© ISU
“I was trying not to lead from the front this time, and I think that decision bit me on the butt a little,”Stoddard said.“There was so much movement, so much bumping, but I’m learning race by race. I feel good and ready to go tomorrow.
“Courtney is really strong right now, a really tough competitor. I’m happy that she was able to come back, after however many hard seasons she had.”
Ice Maples take 3000m Relay glory
Last weekend, the Ice Maples were third in the relay. This time around they played it to perfection, winning convincingly, despite a tricky changeover tumble fromDanae Blais, who somehow avoided a crash.
“It was a crazy race. We tried a new strategy and it was really good for the team to put ourselves in a new situation,”said Blais.“When I fell, I was hoping I’d got her (for a successful tag), and I was hoping I wouldn’t get hit. Luckily, it was all right.”
Seeing Sarault bring it home, ahead of the Koreans and the Japanese Ninjas, was emotional.

Kim Boutin (left) and Courtney Sarault celebrate the Canadian Ice Maples' gold-medal performance in the 3000m Relay.© ISU
“It’s amazing seeing Courtney do this,”said Blais.“We saw it coming, because she won the Canadian selection, but to see her performing so well on the tour, after everything she’s been through, is impressive. I have had some tears when she’s won.”
Sarault wasn’t sure she was ready for one more push.
“I asked the girls, are you sure you want me to finish?”she said.“But they gave me confidence. It’s a learning experience, and I knew I could go for it in the last two laps. I said we’d get redemption (for last weekend) and I was right.”
Meanwhile, Sarault is soaking up the goodwill that has come from all quarters, including her fiercest opponents, after dealing with health issues and anxiety.
“What touches my heart is that they understand me as a person and what I went through,”she said.“You can be a good skater, but you also want to be a good person. And these girls in my time make me the best version of myself.”
The skaters go again on Sunday in Montreal.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union