#ShortTrackSkating

Pascal Dion at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating event in Beijing (CNH) 2021 © International Skating Union (ISU)
The ever-smilingPascal Dionis one of the most popular skaters in Short Track – and his team leader says he’s “probably the most positive man in the whole Canada set-up” – which is saying something. Dion has got plenty to be extra happy about at the moment, too: the 27-year-old is enjoying his most successful ever start to a season.
“When I look at my past performances, I’ve never been in the top 10 so it’s so great,” said Dion, who found himself leading the Men’s 1000m World Cup rankings after the opening two ISU World Cup Short Track events. “To be in first place, well, I was so happy about it.”
A post shared by Pascal Dion (@pascaldion1)
Everyone in Canada knows Dion’s ability – his career to date peaked at PyeongChang 2018, where he picked up an Olympic bronze medal as a key member of the Men’s 5000m Relay team. But what has gone right this time around?“For the past two years I have been really improving in training. I also feel way better in myself at the moment, and more confident when I race,” he said.
“I think that’s because I have found a real balance in my life. I’m studying finance at university, and I do a lot of biking – I don’t just do the ice. These other activities really help because they make me feel better when I am on the ice.”
Dion welcomes the optimist tag. “I am very positive,” he said. “I don’t know why exactly. I guess I really like to skate and I feel lucky to be doing this, and to be on this team. Having that balance in my life now also helps me keep my positivity.

Pascal Dion (CAN) leads the way at the ISU World Cup Short Track in Debrecen © International Skating Union (ISU)
“When you are doing this, you train very hard and you will have hard weeks. So the other stuff helps to keep me smiling.”
Memories of that PyeongChang podium moment are propelling him forward to the Beijing 2022 Games. “Getting that medal at my first Olympics was crazy,” he said. “That Relay team was fantastic but we are a different group now.
“We are a team of younger skaters these days – onlyCharles Hamelinis still here from the team. So we race differently from how we did then. But it’s cool learning with new people, and every skater is solid. I love the vibe on the ice, and we are great friends. I think we can do well again.”
Hamelin, the 37-year-old legend of the game, meanwhile, is a true inspiration. “I’ve learned so much from him,” Dion said. “His attitude to training is incredible. He is always doing what is important and for every skater on the team, it is great to have a leader like Charles.
“I don’t think I will carry on another 10 years like he has but I will keep skating for as long as I enjoy doing it. At the moment, it is a passion.”
Keep it going, and it’s a passion that might lead him to individual medals as well as Relay success. “My ambition is just to keep skating the way I have been, through the season and on to the Olympics,” he said.
“I’ve been confident, getting to the front, doing passes. I like to play in the pack, change the pace of the race, create things. I want to keep working and improving on that.”

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union