
It’s business time in Montreal. The first round of the ISU Short Track World Tour is under way and the Skate to Milano begins here.
Everybody has their eyes on the prizes available: the glittering ISU Crystal Globe – and, beyond that, coveted Olympic medals.
“Winning everything – isn’t that the ideal season, all the time?” saysWilliam Dandjinouof the Canadian Ice Maples, the current men’s ISU Crystal Globe champion, who tops the billing in his homeland this weekend.
“I’m not going to shy away from cool objectives. It’s going to be hard, for sure, but the goal is to win almost every race, as a team, and in individual races,” Dandjinou said.

Reigning women’s championKristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles is also deeply focused. “I’m trying to take it one step at a time, but with it being Olympic year, that’s the ultimate goal,” she says.
“I’m using the World Tour to get a feel of what I want to do at the Games. I want to enjoy every step, because that’s something that in the past I’ve really struggled to do.”

Champions adjust to newfound expectations
Dandjinou and Santos-Griswold were both first-time champions last term. Both are getting used to how this changes perceptions and expectations.
“It’s something that I didn’t think I’d ever achieve, being at the top,” says Santos-Griswold.
“My family was so excited. Every time someone came to visit, they’d be like ‘where’s Crystal? My mum named it [the trophy]. She called it Crystal Milano. It was pretty cool.”
The American has set up ajoint Instagram accountwith her friend and teammateCorinne Stoddardas a pressure release.
“Both of us push each other every day, and we both put a lot of pressure on ourselves, so we thought, let’s just do something fun,” says Santos-Griswold. “It gives a little light-heartedness, it switches the mental state, and reminds us that we’re in it together.”
Dandjinou, meanwhile, has a newfound belief. “I feel like the biggest take from last year is that it is possible. Sometimes you don’t think [success] is in your grasp. But titles are in your grasp.
“Having confidence makes you able to train towards that goal. I had down moments last season but it also brings me confidence to say that no matter what happens, I know I can bounce back fast.”

William Dandjinou (CAN) in action at the 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing, China © ISU
Perspective is required from week one. “You can’t come into a season expecting a Crystal Globe. There’s so many races, so many good skaters,” says Dandjinou.
“It’s a marathon not a sprint. So this is the first leg of the marathon this weekend. It would be nice to start strong, but nothing is played on the first weekend.”
Confidence runs high through rest of field
Should the champions falter, the rest of the field is ready to pounce.
Jens van ’t Woutof the Dutch Lions is ready to move up from the second step of the overall podium last winter.
“This is the best summer I’ve had, I’m definitely going to the World Cups as the fittest I’ve been,” the 24-year-old says. “There is a target on my back, but there is a target on other people’s backs too. I’m really excited.
“For me now, all I’m focusing on is skating and seeing where I am compared with others. Seeing what I can do to try and beat them.”

Jens van 't Wout (NED) leads the pack at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Montreal, Canada © ISU
Arianna Fontanaof the Italian Gladiators is also ready for a year like no other, in which she aims to attend her sixth Olympic Winter Games, and participate in both Short Track and Speed Skating.
“It’s been great,” she says of her summer. “A lot of hard training, but that’s what you’ve got to do, especially in a season as important as this one. I’m really happy the way it went.
“In a way I’m really excited to start racing, in another way not so much because if everything goes well with Long Track, we’re going to be travelling a lot, back to back to back.s Oh my God. It’s pretty exciting.”

Arianna Fontana (ITA) competes at the last season's ISU Short Track World Tour #6 in Milan, Italy © ISU
Her perfect season? “Get to the Games and be on the podiums in both disciplines. Long Track, my goal is to skate the Team Pursuit and the Mass Start.
“For Short Track, the goal is always to be in the final – and then anything can happen. Step by step, make it to the final and then fight for the podium.”
In her homeland, the hype is building. “Summer is over so everyone is looking forward to the Games. Build the buildings, prep everything. They are working hard. It will be an amazing Games.”
TeammatePietro Sighelconcurs. “I’m really excited,” he says. “It is really special having the Olympics, really rare, and we will try to give the best performance.
“All the sports are trying to do the best Olympics for the team. For four years we feel it. All the questions are about Milano Cortina. This season, the goal is February.”

Pietro Sighel (ITA) leads the pack at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Montreal, Canada © ISU
Hometown athletes aim to shine
The Canadian Ice Maples won the ISU Team Crystal Globe in style in 2024/25. They are aiming to hammer home that dominance, starting with the Montreal double header.
Courtney Saraultis bullish. “I feel like I’m in the best physical form I’ve been in my career, and mentally I feel like I’ve developed so much, even in the past year. I didn’t know I had more improvement to do.

“I’m excited to put that to use – and all the things I’ve been working on – on the ice this weekend. I’d be lying if [winning the Crystal Globe] didn’t cross my mind.
“We have four World Tours this year so you have to make a bang at the start. I’m prepared to come in and give everything.”
Felix Rousselshowed fine form at the Canadian qualifiers. “I know I have better legs than last year,” he says. “But most people do. I’ll try to be more consistent this year. I had some moments of really highs and really lows. Let’s keep it all high.

Felix Roussel (CAN) out in front at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Montreal, Canada © ISU
“The Globe could be an objective in the next four years, but it’s hard because I need to earn my spot in the Canadian team first.”
One of that team’s legendary racers,Kim Boutin, meanwhile, is looking forward to another fine season. “I saw myself in the trials having really good times, confidence in my races, pretty good pace,” she says.
She denies that she is a mentor, however. “I feel like all the girls are pretty good dealing with themselves – they give me a lot of strength. I see them more like an asset, as much as I am an asset for them.”
Unite again, and they’ll be hard to stop. It all starts on home ice in Montreal.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union