#ShortTrackSkating

ParkJi Won and Kim Gilli (KOR) compete during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023. @ISU
Gilli and Park champions elect as breath-taking World Cup season culminates in Gdansk
The race to identify this season’s best Short Track speed skaters is nearly over, with the Republic of Korea’sKim GilliandPark Ji Wonset to be crowned the women’s and men’s ISU World Cup Crystal Globe winners in Gdansk, Poland, 16-18 February.
The duo could certainly be forgiven for breaking into wide-eyed grins as they look ahead to the sixth and final World Cup of 2023/24.
Une publication partagée par ISU Speed Skating (@isuspeedskating)
After both produced their very best when it really mattered in Dresden last weekend, Gilli will line-up in Gdansk’s Hala Olivia arena with an almost insurmountable 135-point lead over her nearest challenger. Meanwhile, compatriot Park has a more than healthy 109-point advantage at the top of the men’s standings.
Not that either will be expecting a simple coronation. It is Short Track, after all.

Gilli ready for golden coronation
With none of the trio of reigning women’s Olympic champions,Suzanne Schulting (NED),Choi Minjeong(KOR) andArianna Fontana Arianna Fontana(ITA) taking to the ice at the start of this season, all eyes were on who would take their place.
And there is no doubt that Gilli has emerged as the sport’s brightest new star.

Kim Gilli (KOR) celebrates during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Montreal (CAN). @ISU
The 19-year-old distance dominance has been nothing short of extraordinary. Equally happy bursting from the back of the pack as she is taking control from the gun, Gilli goes into the final event of the season having won four out of six 1500m races and three out of seven 1000m contests.
The fact her lead stands at just 135 points after form like that is down to the all-round brilliance ofKristen Santos-Griswold(USA). The USA star is 25 points ahead of Gilli in the 1000m standings, lies third in the 1500m rankings and won her first ever 500 World Cup title in Beijing in December last year.

Kristen Santos Griswold (USA) poses during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Beijing (CHN). @ISU
Queen of the sprints,Xandra Velzeboer(NED) had also kept herself right in the hunt for the big prize through the season but even another 500m gold in Germany (her fourth of the season) is not quite enough to give the Dutchwoman a realistic chance of over-hauling Gilli.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) celebrates during the ISU European Short Track Championships 2024 in Gdansk (POL). @ISU
The standard of racing across the women’s distances has been extraordinary and BelgianHanne Desmet, the Netherland’sSelma Poutsma(NED) and USA breakout starCorinne Stoddardwill be among those look to end brilliant seasons with a bang.
Add on the intrigue of seeing how the two-recently returned behemoths of the sport, Schulting andKim Boutin(CAN) continue to shape up ahead of next month’s ISU Word Championships, and it’s clear none of the women’s races are to be missed.

Park and Dubois will battle to the end
The same could undoubtedly be said for the men’s contests. Park might be a firm favourite for the trophy they all want, but he will know as well as anyone that everything can change.
The Korean headed to Dresden two points behind Dubois in the Crystal Globe race. But two stunning 1000m performances later and last year’s champion needs just a couple of solid performances to retain his crown.

Felix Roussel (CAN) , Park Ji Won (KOR) and Steven Dubois (CAN) pose during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2024 in Dresden (GER). @ISU
With two 500m races on the agenda in Poland however,Steven Dubois(CAN), an Olympic and world sprint medal winner, could flip the standings once more.
The fact Park has such a commanding lead is astounding given his relatively slow start to the season. It was his teammate,Kim Gun Woowho bestrode the first two World Cups of the season but, showing the timing he is renowned for, Park has roared back and it will take quite something for anyone to take the No.1 he proudly wears on his helmet off him.
While he is unlikely to quite manage it this season,William Dandjinou(CAN) is certainly a rival Park will be keeping an eye on in Dresden. Like another of his teammates, the Canadian started the season without a single World Cup win to his name but will end it as a major contender.

William Dandjinou (CAN) competes during the ISU Four Continents Short Track Championships in Laval (CAN). @ISU
The 1.92m Canadian has now won three times over 1500m and is primed to finish as the sport’s No.1 long distance man. At the other end of the scale liesJordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN). Since his first 500m World Cup win, he has won twice more and leads the rankings by a proverbial mile.

Relay intrigue
The Canadian duo will team up in the men’s relay in Dresden hoping to emerge triumphant in a tight three-way battle for glory. Tied with Republic of Korea, they are currently 10 points behind leaders China.

Republic of Korea, Team Canada and Team of China pose during the ISU World Cup in Beijing (CHN). @ISU
It’s a similar story in the mixed team relay. After trailing China for much of the season, the Netherlands jumped just ahead thanks to victory in Dresden.
But the Dutch will definitely not be expecting to be over-taken in the women’s relay. They won for a fourth time in a row in Germany and with Schulting back, expect another golden finale for the orange team.

Team Netherlands celebrates during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2024 in Dresden (GER). @ISU
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) ISU European Short Track Championships sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union