#ShortTrackSkating

Park pulls clear while Van ‘t Wout defies diet to grab second shock win
Not even the “worst diet of any top athlete” can stop new Dutch Short Track sensationJens van ‘t Woutwinning at the moment.

Jens van 't Wout (NED) followed up Saturday's 1500m triumph with gold in the 500m (2) on Sunday. © International Skating Union
But it isPark Ji Won(KOR) who ended the ISU World Cup meet in Salt Lake City as the undeniable men’s world No.1.
Just minutes after pocketing gold in the 1000m title, Park admitted that when he takes to the ice right now he “feels like the best”.
“I am just thinking about being a winner,” said the Korean who also won silver in the 1500m and the men’s 5000m relay at the Utah Olympic Oval to go with the double gold he won in the opening World Cup event in Montreal.
“It’s always good to be No.1,” he added. “But it’s not easy, the other athletes are strong.”
Despite such assertions, the Korean made it look easy at times in Salt Lake City. Up againstPascal Dion(CAN), the 1000m (2) winner from Montreal, as well as teammate Hong Kyung Hwan, Park grabbed control of the race from the midway point and never looked in serious danger.
Hong, who won the 1000m in Salt Lake City in the 2018/19 season, ended with silver whileAdil Galiakhmetov(KAZ) took another medal for the ever-improving men’s Kazakhstan team.

Adil Galiakhmetov (KAZ) skates to bronze in the men's 1000m on Saturday. © International Skating Union
Dion defies fatigue to take relay gold
Dion, who eventually fell in the 1000m, did get his revenge on Park in the men’s 5000m relay. Remarkably, it was the Canadian’s sixth race of the day.
“I’m a little tired in my legs,” admitted Dion who had competed in the morning repechage sessions. “But I am happy I did a lot of strong racing today. The relay really gave me a lot of extra energy. We’re very strong in the relay because of the way we work together, we’ve just got good synergy.”

It's all smiles for Canada after winning 5000m relay gold at the Utah Olympic Oval. © International Skating Union
It was just enough to keep them clear of the Koreans, with China taking bronze in what was a fittingly thrilling final race of the weekend.
“It is really nice to beat the Koreans,” Dion said before adding, “Now I need to sleep.”
Nutella fires success
One man who feels like he has been sleeping ever since he got to Salt Lake City is the 21-year-old Van ‘t Wout.
“It feels fake, I’ve still got to wake up,” the Dutchman said with a smile after winning the 500m(2) ahead of Kazakhstan’s Denis Nikisha and Pietro Sighel (ITA).
Before getting on the famous Utah Olympic Oval ice, Van ‘t Wout had never even made an A final. Now he is the proud owner of two World Cup gold medals. He claimed his second in a nail-biting sprint, snatching his opportunity to surge into the lead for the first time on the last lap.
“It’s really weird to skate in an A final even,” he said. “I was thinking this morning thank god I was in the semifinal and then it was thank god I was in the final. Winning? I didn’t even think about that.
“My start was terrible. I didn’t have time to think. All these guys are speed demons, it was just go as fast as possible and hope.”
Fellow racer Melle van ‘t Wout was as delighted as anyone in the arena at his little brother’s success, if a tiny bit surprised he had the fuel inside him for another gold medal.
“He eats the worst of all athletes. Maybe he could gain a couple more tenths of second if he ate properly,” van ‘t Wout senior said of his brother, who is a self-confessed Nutella sandwich addict.
“But to see my little bro kick ass is amazing. I’ve got the same DNA, so why not me next time?”
The World Cup series resumes in Almaty, Kazakhstan 9-11 December.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union