Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
#ShortTrackSkating
Day One of the Nederlandse Loterij 2024 ISU World Short Track Championships at Rotterdam Ahoy was an absolute rollercoaster.
Two outstanding athletes picked up debut ISU World Championship golds. TeenagerKim Gilli(KOR) cemented her position as the sport’s most exciting star, keeping a cool head to win a chaotic 1500m, whileKim Boutin(CAN) – a racing legend in her homeland, but one who had never taken a World Championship title – finally broke that hoodoo with an unexpected 500m triumph.
Kim follows up Crystal Globe dominance with 1500m World title
The women’s 1500m was a thriller, with the three best long-distance racers of 2023-24 going head-to-head.
19-year-old Kim,Kristen Santos-Griswold(USA) andHanne Desmet(BEL) have been ranked one, two and three in this distance this term and in Rotterdam, the trio exchanged the lead in the early stages, withCorinne Stoddard(USA) andSuk Hee Shim(KOR) also stretching things at the front.
With four laps to go, the lightning Santos-Griswold turned on the burners. The others strained to keep up, and Desmet attempted a trademark last-lap pass. But as the pair duelled, Desmet committed a foul on the American, allowing Kim to slip through for victory.
Santos-Griswold had to settle for silver while Stoddard, fourth over the line, took bronze after Desmet’s disqualification.

Kim Gilli (KOR) added World Championship gold to her Crystal Globe, winning an exciting 1500m at the last. @ISU
“It was a nice win, very exciting, and my best result,” said Kim.
“I knew I had done it the moment I passed the line. It was hard to defend my ranking at this tournament but I’m glad I managed to do it.
“It’s nice to be called the ‘next big thing’. I had some difficulties but I tried to overcome them. I’m grateful to my parents, and grandmother, and I’m grateful to my coach.”
Santos-Griswold was frustrated, having looked good for victory in the dying moments.
“I’m glad I was able to come out on the podium, but I was really disappointed with being out front on the last lap and then getting taken out,” she said.
“I can’t be upset with how I am skating. I felt really strong and I felt like I had that race. It’s the first US medal here in 10 or something years, so that’s exciting, and to be up there with my teammate is special.”

Kristen Santos-Griswold (left) and Corinne Stoddard (right) picked up the first World Championship medals for the USA in 10 years. @ISU
Stoddard has also been making impressive forward strides this season.
“It was lucky, I got fourth, it was a hard race and I was constantly fighting for position,” she said.
“It was constant pushing and shoving, so I’m happy to get a medal. I’m happy with my progress and I can’t wait to keep improving. I really put a focus on skating this year because I put school on hold, and that paid off.
“I love the atmosphere here. The DJ, the full stadium, it feels really good to see the sport so popular. This feels like the biggest stage I’ve ever been on.”
Tearful Boutin finally strikes gold
Nobody saw the result of the 500m coming – apart, perhaps, from Kim Boutin herself.
The Canadian veteran has been winning ISU World Cup medals since 2014 and has registered 13 World Championship medals during her decade of excellence – six of them silver and seven bronze.
Not many would have bet on her here: not because she isn’t one of the best 500m skaters in history – she has been world record holder after all – but because she had taken most of the season off.
Add into that the fact that she lined up against the current 500m world record holder and last year’s World Champion inXandra Velzeboer(NED),Selma Poutsma(NED) – the only racer who it seems can beat her compatriot this season – as well as Santos-Griswold and 500m Olympic championArianna Fontana(ITA), and she was far from the favorite.
But Boutin hit the front early and staying out of trouble served her well. The other three racers tussled and held each other up, with Fontana being disqualified for a foul.
Poustma hit the deck; Velzeboer came back from being impeded to get silver, and Santos-Griswold secured the bronze. It allowed the Canadian a tearful moment on the top step of the podium at last.

Kim Boutin (CAN) celebrates winning her first World Championship gold in the 500m after 13 podium placings. @ISU
“I thought ‘I’ll start fast and see how I go’, I felt in control,” said Boutin. “I told my coach last year I am pretty tired of being second. It felt good on the line. It is a relief to do it.”
So should she take half the season off every year?
“I don’t think so, but it has worked here. I’m always thinking of skating when I am skating and that’s great, but we don’t win millions of dollars, so to do my three months of focusing on school, doing an internship, that was good.
“I need more training to be stronger, but there are benefits of the time off. It was really nice to win. Since I got my world record I didn’t have time to get that level back. It’s nice to challenge myself again.”
Velzeboer was reflective about losing her 500m crown.
“It was a crazy one but I can’t have regrets for this race,” she said. “I had a very good start. I moved up to second and felt it was perfect to wait for a move.
“But then Fontana passed me and she got a penalty, and it brought me a disadvantage. I stayed calm after what happened and I’m kind of proud I got back into second. But there wasn’t chaos in my head and I was focused.
“I did all the right things. It’s short track. I have confidence. Everyone is faster than last year. The field is really strong. But I enjoyed this a lot, and it is the best atmosphere I’ve been in.”

Xandra Velzeboer (NED, left) took silver, with Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA, right) winning her second medal of the day. @ISU
Santos-Griswold was also content with her second medal of the day.
“I can’t believe what happened in a short four-and-a-half laps,” she said.
“That race was insane, I didn’t know a 500m could go like that. So much passing, people everywhere, you thought you were safe and then someone would come flying in. It was crazy.
“But I’m feeling good and looking forward to the 1000m. It’s typically my best race.”
Racing continues with the women’s 1000m at Rotterdam Ahoy tomorrow.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Friday, Saturday and Sunday ISU World Short Track Championships sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#WorldShortTrack.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox