#ShortTrackSkating
The ISU is releasing the entry quotas, qualifying times and details for ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships for the season 2022/23.
In this communication you will find Entry Quotas for the following Championships:
-ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023
-ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023
-ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023
-ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023
As well as the Qualifying Times & Seeding Times for ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2023.
* Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and following the cancellation or postponement of several national and International Competitions, results achieved since July 1, 2019 will be considered as valid.

ENTRY DEADLINES
In accordance with Rule 295, paragraphs 4), the number of Competitors, substitutes, coaches and Team leaders shall be entered at least six (6) weeks before the first day of the Competition. The number of other personnel travelling with the team shall also be communicated separately at least six (6) weeks before the ISU Event concerned.In accordance with Rule 295, paragraphs 4), the number of Competitors, substitutes, coaches and Team leaders shall be entered at least six (6) weeks before the first day of the Competition. The number of other personnel travelling with the team shall also be communicated separately at least six (6) weeks before the ISU Event concerned.
ISU Members are seriously requested to enter only the number of Skaters they actually intend to send to the ISU Championships concerned. The names of the Competitors and substitutes names per category with their ISU Registration Number, the names of the Competitors for each of the respective individual distances and the confirmation of participation in the Relay shall be communicated to the organizing committee at the latest on the 10th day before the start of the first race of the Competition. For Post Entries Rule 115, paragraph 6 of the General Regulations applies.6The exact deadlines are issued in the Official Announcement for each ISU Championships.
ISU Members are requested to study and follow the corresponding Rules (Rules 115/130/131) and the corresponding Declaration Form which is available on the ISU Extranet.
In line with Rule 115, paragraph 6 of the General Regulations, ISU Members are reminded that post entries might be accepted by the ISU President only in case of clearly and truly exceptional circumstances.
To read the full ISU Communication 2517, please click on the link on the right.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union