#ShortTrackWorldTour

Canada's William Dandjinou celebrates his 1000 m win at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Montreal on Sunday © ISU

At the debut event of theISU Short Track World Tourlast weekend,William Dandjinouof the Canadian Ice Maples won three gold medals: 500 m, 1500 m and the 5000 m Relay – but still rated himself a “seven out of 10”.
This weekend, also at the Maurice Richard Arena in Montreal, he was near perfect.
The local hero won the 1500 m again on Saturday and took silver in the 500 m – behind his teammateSteven Dubois– and on Sunday he added a masterful 1000 m gold, before joining his fellow Ice Maples at the top of the podium in the 5000 m Relay and Mixed Team Relay.
“I’m giving myself a 10 out of 10 this weekend,” Dandjinou said, "because even that silver felt like gold. With Steven winning, it was almost perfect. But maybe I should say nine and a half, because there has to be room for improvement.”
Jang Sungwooof the Korean White Tigers also impressed, whileJordan Pierre-Gillesof the Ice Maples performed superbly, showing the world it isn’t just Dubois and Dandjinou it needs to be wary of in the run-up to the 2026 Olympic Winter Games.
'William is dominating'
The men’s 1000 m saw Dandjinou win with some ease. Always looking in control, he moved up to the front of the pack with four laps to go, with Pierre-Gilles and Jang in hot pursuit.
Neither could match his pace, though, and the rangy Canadian blocked a late pass attempt from Jang. The Korean took silver and Pierre-Gilles the bronze.
Jang was pleased with his finish.
“I am very excited,” he said. “Fighting against the Canadians is very difficult.The race was fast. I was waiting for my chance. I had to come through the repechage this morning, so I am really tired. It was my fifth race of the day.”
The Korean White Tigers' Jang Sungwoo (left) chases William Dandjinou in the 1000 m final Sunday at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Montreal © ISU
Pierre-Gilles was also on a high.
“The race had a lot of movement,” he said. “It challenged us a lot and it showed that we could manage it and make good decisions in different situations and positions in the pack.”
The Canadian duo then combined to help win the 5000 m Relay for the Ice Maples, ahead of Republic of Korea and Italy.
Jordan Pierre-Gilles (left) celebrates Canada's 5000 m Relay win with teammate Steve Dubois Sunday in Montreal © ISU
“It’s amazing, man," said Pierre-Gilles. "We are unbeaten at home. Winning in the team is a really special feeling. William is dominating. It’s no surprise since we train with him. It is inspiring and he has a great attitude that brings power to everyone.”
Canada also took Mixed Relay gold, ahead of Netherlands and Japan, after a long stretch of struggling in the discipline.
Felix Roussel, Steven Dubois and Kim Boutin of Canada celebrate Mixed Relay gold in front of their home fans in Montreal @ ISU
“We figured a lot of stuff out this summer and we worked really hard on it,” saidFelix Roussel. “The points are important for the Overall Globe, and it’s really nice to race with the girls that we train with.It’s been a long time since we’ve had a consistent performance in it. We were tired of doing the B final, of doing mid-tier performances in an event we can be the best at.”
Park vows to strike back as World Tour moves on to Asia
Having a quiet weekend was the winner of theISU Crystal Globefor the past two seasons,Park Ji Wonof the Korean White Tigers. But the always-confident champion remains bullish.
“I am feeling good,” he said. “William is at a very high point, but it is no problem, I feel like I can get back onto the top.The next races are in Asia and I think that will be easier for us. This is home for them, but World Tour 4 we can win on our ice in Korea.”
Park Ji Won of Republic of Korea chases Steven Dubois (CAN) during the 5000 m Relay semifinal at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Montreal © ISU
Dandjinou enjoys that kind of talk.
“I like to hear it,” he said. “We have been very good competitors for a year now. There is mutual respect, but also we won’t let each other win.It is harder over there. It does make a difference being able to stay at home, especially for two weekends, and having your home crowd and energy. I hope he uses his advantage well.He’s a very good skater, and he will be difficult to beat, but I’m going to be there to bring the heat so he better be ready.”
Dandjinou leads the standings for the men’s ISU Crystal Globe with 500 points after the first two ISU Short Track World Tour events.Pietro Sighelof the Italian Gladiators is second with 328 points, withJens van 't Woutof the Dutch Lions third with 276.
While Dandjinou had a solid season in 2023-24, his supremacy at this point will have surprised many, but not his coach. Marc Gagnon should know a few things about the sport, after winning four overall world titles and three gold medals at the Olympic Games.
“It was a mental thing with Will,” Gagnon said. “His physical capacity has always been there and we knew he was smart enough to really become good at tactical stuff, so it was more getting his head to the right place.Once you start doing well, it is easier to keep the focus in the right place. He is more mature and, physically, the good news for us is that he still has some room for improvement.
“He likes to play with the crowd and get people going, but when it is time to focus on his performance, he comes back to it.Will he win everything for the next two years? No. He’s going to have failure, for sure. He has a lot to learn, but he is certainly on a good path.”
In the battle for the ISU Team Crystal Globe, Canada leads with 3106 points, ahead of Korea (2578) and Italy (2145).
The ISU Short Track World Tour continues in Beijing, China from Dec. 6-8, and Seoul, Republic of Korea from Dec. 13-15.

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union