
#ShortTrackSkating

William Dandjinou (CAN) celebrates his win in the Men's 1500m in Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

Four of the superstars of men’s Short Track stepped up and wowed the crowd on the final day of World Cup racing in Seoul. While home heroPark Ji Won(KOR) andSteven Dubois(CAN) battled at the top of the season standings,William Dandjinou(CAN) stole through to continue his dream season beforeLiu Shaoanggrabbed a golden finale for China.
Canada’s Dubois will end 2024 as the No.1 ranked men’s skater but wow, is it close. The three-time Olympic medallist admitted he went into Sunday’s 1500m final with just one thing on his mind: “to beat Park Ji Won”. The duo started the day just 15 points apart in the race to land the coveted Crystal Globe – awarded to the top-scoring skater across the season – and with the pair keeping more than half an eye on each other, it opened the door for Dandjinou to remind them he needs watching too.
“I had a small window and I seized the moment and the opportunity,” the Canadian said after pulling clear of the warring pair with three laps to go. It was a move that is fast becoming the norm for the 1.90m tall skater who has been in stunning form all season. Once Dubois and Park realised what was happening they gave chase, but despite his legs “burning” Dandjinou was able to hold on.


Park Ji Won (KOR), William Dandjinou (CAN), Steven Dubois (CAN) on the podiumin Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

“He made such a perfect race. As soon as I crossed the line, I was like ‘what a good race’. It was insane,” Dubois said of his 22-year-old teammate who now has two individual golds, a silver and two bronzes from the first four World Cup meetings of the season.
Dubois finished narrowly behind Park, a silver-bronze result that saw the Korean narrow the Canadian’s Crystal Globe lead to just two points.
“I was definitely not expecting to be coming out on top at the end of the first two-thirds (of the season). I know what I have to work on and there will not be too much turkey for me,” Dubois said, alluding to the forthcoming holiday season.
But what he really wanted to talk about was his remarkable young teammate.
“I don’t think I’ve ever seen such a big improvement so fast,” he said.

William Dandjinou (CAN) in actionin Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

Such praise from a man Dandjinou sees as a mentor is immense.
“His words make me more emotional than my medal,” said the Montreal resident who lies third in the Crystal Globe race. “I never imagined I would win so many medals and be so close to the leaders, people I have been watching for years.”

Shaoang shines for China
While Park was not quite able to provide the gold medal that another passionately noisy crowd wanted, it looked for all the world likeSeo Yi Ra(KOR) would. The Korean, who won the overall world championship title back in 2017, rolled back the years in the men’s 500m final. After seeing off a resurgentDenis Nikisha(KAZ), the gold seemed to be his for the taking.
But to the shock of almost everyone in the Mokdong Arena, China’s Liu Shaoang appeared, seemingly out of nowhere, to claim victory in a desperately tight photo-finish.
The Olympic 1000m champion explained just how he did it.

Liu Shaoang (CHN) (R) fights for the line against Seo Yi Ra (KOR) in the Men's 500m,Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

“I was starting in position five so I didn’t have big hope to win a medal. I was trying to help Shaolin (his brother) because he was in front of me, I didn’t try to attack or pass or anything. Sadly, he fell and then I was building the speed up so I got a good amount of speed and that’s how I could pass at the end,” the younger Liu said.
“When I was crossing the finish line I was not sure I got him but when I looked at the big screen, it was my name in the first position but it was unofficial. I was screaming and my coaches said ‘relax’. It was an emotional rollercoaster.”
Silver was still a fine result for Seo, who last won a World Cup sprint gold back in 2016/17, as was bronze for Nikisha, a skater who has struggled to build on last season’s fine showing.
But for Liu Shaoang racing was not over. The Chinese skater swiftly put one gold down, donned his skates again and won the men’s 5000m relay.

Liu Shaoang leads China to victory in the Men's 5000m Relay,Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

Korea, Netherlands and China all threatened to take charge of the final event of the weekend, with the lead changing hands throughout. But after Korea fell Shaoang took charge.
“A good feeling to celebrate with the team,” he said. “It’s always the biggest honour to win with the team, that’s why it’s the last, it’s the biggest event.”

For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union