#WorldShortTrack
It was their rivals who best describedWilliam DandjinouandSteven Dubois’s displays, as the pair – alongside their women’s 3000m relay team – turned the Capital Indoor Stadium into a Canadian haven on the opening day of the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Championships in Beijing.
Both skaters have dominated the men’s ISU World Tour this season, Dandjinou across the distances, while Dubois has made himself into the world’s undisputed No.1 sprinter. But backing up such performances, on the biggest stage of all, was a whole other task.
One both proved they were more than up to.

William Dandjinou (CAN) leads the pack in the Men's 1500m Final at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing © ISU

“That guy is a beast,” home hopeLiu Shaoang(CHN) said after grabbing a somewhat distant bronze behind winner Dandjinou in the men’s 1500m Final, with the silver medal going toStijn Desmet(BEL).
“He’s doing amazing races, amazing passes all the time. I hope he stays in this good shape so we can keep learning a lot (from him).”
That was quite a compliment, and one thatDenis Nikisha(KAZ) matched after Dubois relegated him to silver in an electrifying 500m Final, a race in whichJens van ‘T Woutclaimed bronze.
“He’s too good, the top one this season, you can open the ISU (website) and see that he is very, very good this season,” the Kazak said.
For the duo themselves, it was a day they know they’ll never forget.
“I feel like we have been building momentum together and I am just super happy for him,” Dandjinou said. “He’s been dominating this distance for a while now, so being able to celebrate our titles together is just amazing.”
Dandjinou uncatchable in 1500m
It was Dandjinou, the recently crowned ISU Crystal Globe champion, who took center stage first.

William Dandjinou (CAN) leads the pack at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing © ISU
Four of his eight ISU World Tour victories have come in the 1500m this season, but the big man still had to dig deep, as the first final of the 2025 World Championships more than lived up to the billing.
Park Jiwon(KOR) and van ‘T Wout, the current 1500m world No.2 and 3 ranked skaters, are more than aware that Dandjinou’s chosen tactic is to dominate from the gun. But they, alongside Liu, the 2022 1500m World Champion, and Desmet were not about to let that happen.
Park was the first to try and stretch Dandjinou, taking charge and turning up the pace early. But Dandjinou, in his current form, simply had all the answers.
With six laps to go, the Canadian found himself at the back. So, he simply powered to the front, turned up the dial, pulled away and claimed the second world title of what is fast turning into quite a career.
Even if he insisted it is not as easy as it appears.
“Pretty stressful stuff. Short Track is not a given, and I felt like I really had to work for that one, especially with the super strong field,” Dandjinou said. “You always want the best skaters to be there and we had that in the Final today.”
The 23-year-old, who will get a chance to defend his 1000m world title on Sunday, then afforded his rivals a brief insight as to why he keeps winning.
“Just being level-headed, and knowing your strengths and weaknesses, and being able to work around them and play your cards right,” he said.

(L-R) Stijn Desmet (BEL), William Dandjinou (CAN) and Liu Shaoang (CHN) with their medals at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing © ISU
Desmet, who held on best to light up a difficult season, described just what it’s like when Dandjinou pulls the trigger.
“It reminded me of some hard trainings we did together in summer. Seeing that nobody else was keeping up was very nice. I had moments of hope that maybe he would slow down. But I know that he is so strong. In the end I was just happy I could keep up,” said Desmet, who copied Dandjinou’s trademark wing-flapping celebrations.
“I was somewhat flying with him during the race, so I felt it was appropriate to fly with him over the line too.”
Dubois fills hole in trophy cabinet
Dubois looked like he was flying all day, as he repeatedly dipped under 40 seconds in the 500m heats. In fact, the World Record mark of 39.505 may have been in danger in the Final, had the Canadian not had one big heart-in-the-mouth moment.
“I had a big slip and managed to do a big crossover with a straight away push to block. And it was pivotal, because probably my race would have been done if I had been passed then,” said Dubois, who snatched the gold in a time of 40.008.


Steven Dubois (CAN) leads the Men’s 500m ahead of Denis Nikisha (KAZ) at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing, China © ISU
“It was the only medal I was missing in my career. I had silver and bronze individual in the World Championships, I had all three in the Olympic Games, so I was really looking for it in this one.
“I felt super confident all throughout the year; I had some super consistent results. For me to be finally clutching it (the gold) and taking it home now, it feels amazing and it takes me to the next year with a great mentality.”
Nikisha will meet him there. The Kazak has been targeting two events all year: the 2025 Asian Games and these Championships. With a World sprint silver medal, and the Asian Games 5000m Men’s relay gold, it is job done.

(L-R) Jens Van T' Wout (NED), Steven Dubois (CAN) and Denis Nikisha (KAZ) medalists in the Men's 500m Finals in Beijing, China © ISU
“We did it, this was very important to us because it’s the last season before the Olympic Games,” Nikisha said.
He, and the rest of the Men’s best, will get one last chance to impress with the men’s 500m and 5000m relays taking place on Sunday, along with the mixed team relay.

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the CNSG ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. Find the full list on the Where to Watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#WorldShortTrack.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union