Elise Christie (GBR) and Dmitry Migunov (RUS) earn wins in the 500 m
Elise Christie (GBR) earned her second individual gold medal of the weekend with a win in the Ladies 500 m event. She led the race from start to finish, crossing the line ahead of Minjeong Choi (KOR). Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) finished in third place, and claims the overall World Cup title for the distance. In the final, fourth place finisher was Arianna Fontana (ITA).
On the Men’s side, Dmitry Migunov (RUS) clinched the World Cup title for the distance with a win in today’s 500 m event. He won in dominating fashion, leading the race from the start. Paul Stanley (GBR) finished in second place, while Yoon-Gy Kwak (KOR) was third. There were six skaters at the start line, with Chris Creveling (USA) and Sebastien Lepape (FRA) finishing in fourth and fifth place respectively. Vladimir Grigorev (RUS) was given a penalty in the race.
1000 m winners are Do Hee Noh (KOR) and Charle Cournoyer (CAN)
Do Hee Noh (KOR) took the top spot in the second Ladies 1000 m event today, taking the lead on the last lap from Valerie Maltais (CAN). In fact, a photo finish review was required to confirm the winner. Maltais finished in second place, while Jiaying Tao (CHN) was third. Namasthee Harris-Gauthier (CAN) finished in fourth place, while Yihan Guo (CHN) finished in fifth. The overall World Cup title for the distance goes to Minjeong Choi (KOR).
On the Men’s side, Charle Cournoyer (CAN) took the lead with four laps to go and never looked back to take the win. He finished ahead of Jiwon Park (KOR) and Semen Elistratov (RUS) who finished in second and third place respectively. Jung-Su Lee (KOR) was the fourth place finisher in the event. Elistratov earned enough points today to confirm the top spot in the World Cup ranking for the distance.
Italy (Ladies) and Russia (Men) repeat in the Relay events
Italy took its second consecutive win in as many weekends in the Ladies’ Relay events with a gold medal performance. The racing return of Arianna Fontana (ITA) has definitely helped the Italian team. Russia finished in second place, while France took the third and final podium spot. The team from China finished fourth, while Korea received a penalty. Despite a less than ideal end to the World Cup season, Korea does take the Ladies Relay overall title.
In the Men’s Relay event, Russia took the top honors again, taking advantage of two penalties being awarded in the race. Both Canada and Korea received penalties, allowing Netherlands to finish in second place. Canada is classified in third place and claims the overall title in the distance.
These skaters will now prepare for the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Seoul, Republic of Korea from March 11-13, 2016.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union