#ShortTrackSkating

There is no stoppingSuzanne Schulting(NED) this ISU World Cup Short Track series. The 25-year-old Dutchwoman picked up exactly where she left off in Salt Lake City (USA) last month, capturing gold in the 1500m (1) on a thrilling opening day of this season’s third meet in Almaty (KAZ).
Schulting went to the Halyk Arena on Saturday knowing a positive result would ensure she would stand clear at the top of the overall World Cup classification, as rivaling compatriotXandra Velzeboer(NED) was forced to miss this weekend’s action due to illness.
Schulting had trailed Velzeboer by just four points in the Crystal Globe race but a convincing win now leaves Schulting comfortably clear at the top.

Suzanne Schulting (NED) celebrates her 1500m (1) gold medal © International Skating Union
“It feels so good to win gold here,” Schulting, who screamed with joy as she crossed the line, said minutes after the race. “I was also nursing a cold this week so I tried to make the most of it.
“I’m actually a bit surprised with how well it went. It was such a strong field, which it always is when the Koreans andKristen (Santos-Griswold, USA) are in the mix.”
The race proved to be a tactical one, with multiple overtaking moves and a lot of jostling for position. Schulting eventually took gold ahead of rivalChoi Min Jeong(KOR), who had to settle for silver, and third-placedKim Gilli(KOR).

The medalists in the Women's 1500m: (L-R) Choi Min Jeong Choi (KOR), Suzanne Schulting (NED), Kim Gilli (KOR) © International Skating Union
“The Koreans always like to ride together and beat the Dutch. To fight them off in such a race makes me feel even better about my performance,” Schulting said.
The Netherlands have yet to announce if Velzeboer’s absence will extend beyond just this weekend. She remains part of the Dutch squad in Almaty.
Sarault wins again
A month after bagging her first two Senior ISU Championship titles,Courtney Sarault(CAN) now also knows what it feels like to win an ISU World Cup gold.
Sarault, the 2021 World Championships overall silver medalist, arrived in Almaty on a wave of good tidings, having won the 1500m and 1000m at the Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships in November.
And the Canadian was too fast for the field in Almaty, coming out on top in the 1000m. The 22-year-old beatShim Suk Hee(KOR) into second, withCorinne Stoddard(USA) taking third place to claim her first podium finish in an individual World Cup event.

Courtney Sarault (CAN) enjoys her victory in the Women's 1000m © International Skating Union
“I think it took me like a whole lap after for it to really set in that I came first,” Sarault said. “I had a click with the skates (during the race), so my adrenaline just kicked in and I was like, ‘Oh my lord’.
“I didn’t want them to pass, so I’m super happy that I held them off. They were coming in hot.”
“Normally I’m getting silver, so this is a little upgrade. It’s really motivating.”
Sarault admitted that she was “still lacking a bit of confidence before the final”, despite being such a dominant force at the Four Continents.
“But when I put my skates on I was like, ‘Stop doing that, you proved you’re strong. Then I just went for it and it paid off. Hopefully there’s more gold to come.”
The 21-year-old Stoddard was all smiles after her own performance, too.
“It makes me really happy. It’s my first individual medal. I’m excited for the future and what’s to come,” she said.
Women’s racing continues in Almaty with the 500m, 1500m (2) and 3000m Relay finals on Sunday.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relaywcst
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED
About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union