
As the excitement of the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games settles, Short Track fans were given a glimpse into the future of the sport as the planet’s best young racers competed at the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2018 in Tomaszow Mazowiecki, Poland.
Kyung Hwan Hong (KOR), Jan Hyuk Park (KOR) and June Seo Lee (KOR)
The Republic of Korea’s future as Short Track’s powerhouse looks in good hands, asKim Ji Yoo (KOR)was crowned the Ladies’ World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Champion for 2018, whileHong Kyung Hwan (KOR)became the Men’s World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Champion for 2018.
In the team Relay, Canada became the Ladies’ World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Relay Champions for 2018, while Japan became the Men’s World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Relay Champions for 2018.

Kim (KOR) is Ladies’ Champion as North Americans Sarault (CAN) and Biney (USA) shine
At the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships, only an overall title is awarded, based on the results of each skater in the three individual distances 500m, 1000m, 1500m and – if qualified – the 1500m Super Final.
Kim Ji Yoo put down an early lead by winning the 1500m on Saturday in two minutes, 46.542 seconds, ahead of Courtney Lee Sarault (CAN) and Han Soo Lim (KOR).
In the 500m later that day, USA’sMaame Bineyimpressed. The Ghana-born, Utah-raised athlete was so fast as a child that her Figure Skating instructor told her to try out Short Track and, finishing in 44.305s, she eased to victory ahead ofPetra Jaszapati (HUN)and Xandra Velzeboer (NED).
But on Sunday, Kim was dominant, winning the 1000m ahead of Sarault (second) and Biney (third). Sarault then won the 1500m Super Final, ahead of Kim (second) and Jaszapati (third).
Kim’s consistency was enough to give her the overall title with 94 points, ahead of Sarault (84) and Biney (52), but all three skaters showed moments of brilliance. Kim has already won on the senior circuit, taking 1000m gold at the ISU World Cup meeting in Salt Lake City in 2016/17, and looks a real prospect for the next few seasons.

Courtney Lee Sarault (CAN), Kim Ji Yoo (KOR) and Maame Biney (USA)
Koreans crush opposition to take all podium places in Junior Men’s events

It was all about the Republic of Korea in the Junior Men’s event as their athletes won every individual race at the meeting and took all three overall podium positions.
Hong Kyung Hwan (KOR)won the 1500m on Saturday, ahead ofKazuki Yoshinaga (JPN)in second and Park Jang Hyuk (KOR) in third, while later that day Lee June Seo (KOR) was victorious in the 500m, ahead of Hong (KOR, second) andQuentin Fercoq (FRA), third.
On Sunday, the Rep. Koreans then went 1-2-3 in both races, with Hong winning the 1000m ahead of Park (second) and Lee (third). They reversed positions in the 1500m Super Final, with Lee winning, Park second and Hong third.
Hong’s two wins, a second place and a third gave him victory in the overall classification and the allround gold, with 102 points. Lee got silver with 83, while Park scored 55 to take bronze.
Like his Ladies’ teammateKim Ji Yoo, Hong is already performing well in senior ISU World Cup meetings, picking up two silver medals (Dresden and Minsk) in 2016/17, and should be a threat to the senior racers on tour next season.

Kyung Hwan Hong (KOR), Jan Hyuk Park (KOR) and June Seo Lee (KOR)
Canada (Ladies) and Japan (Men) lift relay titles
Canada became Ladies’ World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Relay Champions by winning Saturday’s Ladies’ 3000m Relay final. They finished ahead of Japan (silver) and Italy (bronze).
Many expected the Republic of Korea to win the Men’s event after their dominance in the individual races, but a yellow card kept them off the podium. Japan took the 3000m Relay title ahead of Russia (silver) and Netherlands (bronze).

Shione Kaminaga and Courtney Lee Sarault

Fullresults and classifications. Follow the discussion on social media by using#WorldJShortTrackand#ShortTrackSkating.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union