#ShortTrackSkating

Yu Sumin (KOR) wins the Women's 500m (2) at the ISU Junior World Cup Short Track at Elfstedenhal, Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU
The second round of ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating took place at the Elfstedenhal in Leeuwarden, Netherlands, this weekend. Republic of Korea once again asserted its supremacy at this level of skating, winning six of the eight individual golds up for grabs.
Rim and Shin show class
Republic of Korea always excels at junior-level Short Track: techniques are taught young in Seoul and beyond, meaning their teenagers often make it to a world-class standard a couple of seasons before racers from other countries.
Korea is also traditionally incredible in the 1500m – the event in which racecraft and tactics play the biggest part.

Gold medalist Yu Sumin (KOR) at the ISU Junior World Cup Short Track at Elfstedenhal, Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU
Combine the two and you’ve got something hard to top. Just as the Koreansswept the Men’s and Women’s 1500mlast week at the first edition of the ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating, also held in Leeuwarden, they did so again this time around, too.
In the Women’s event on Saturday, Yu Sumin (KOR) – who got silver in this distance last week – pocketed gold this time around. She conserved energy and then turned on the burners when needed, pipping Zhang Jianing (CHN) into silver and Li Jinzi (CHN) into third.
More glory followed in the men’s 1500m, with Rim Jongun (KOR) illuminating the Elfstedenhal. The powerful racer put meters of space in front of teammate Han Byeong-Chan (KOR), who took silver, and the bronze medalist Lyu Yanpeng (CHN).

Rim Jongun (KOR) takes 1500m gold in Elfstedenhal, Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU
China showed it wasn’t all going to be about Korea in the Women’s 500m (1):Song Jiarui(CHN) was lightning-fast as she finished ahead of Dora Szigeti (HUN) and Kang Minji (KOR), after a crash took out Chung Jaehee (KOR) and Berenice Comby (FRA).

Jiarui Song (CHN) skates to victory in the Women's 500m (1) in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU
In the Men’s 500m (1), meanwhile, there was a great battle betweenLi Kun(CHN) and Shin Dong Min (KOR). The tussle led to a couple of crashes, and, amid the chaos, the Chinese overtook the Korean but then lost position after the speedy move.
Shin, who also won the 500m last weekend, snuck through for gold, with Li second and Kim Minwoo (KOR) third.

Battling for victory (L-R): Shin Dong Min (KOR), Kim Minwoo (KOR) and Li Kun (CHN) in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU
Yu and Shin score gold again on Sunday
Korea’s haul of medals continued Sunday – although rivals China scooped the first one of the day.
Li Jinzi (CHN) got the better of Oh Songmi (KOR), who came second, and Lyu Wanyu (CHN), who was third, in the Women’s 1000m, completing an exciting couple of weekends for the young Chinese racer.

Li Jinzi (CHN) wins the Women's 1000m in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU
The Men’s 1000m went to Korea yet again, however, as the speedy and consistent Han Byeong-Chan (KOR) grabbed his first gold medal at this level. Bas Van der Valk (NED) managed silver, on what was again a quiet weekend for the European nations, and
Dinmukhamed Tazhibay (KAZ) took third place.

Victorious: Han Byeong-Chan (KOR) celebrates his first place in the Men's 1000m in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU
Korea then rounded off the weekend in style. Yu (KOR) got her second gold of the weekend in the Women’s 500m (2), beating off hot competition fromAngel Daleman(NED), who took silver, and Rika Kanai (JPN), who got bronze, in a tight race.
And Shin also claimed his second gold at this meet – adding to his victory last weekend. In the Men’s 500m (2), he showed the physical ability of a senior racer to finish ahead of Adam Law (CAN) and Kim Minwoo (KOR).
It was a dazzling display from the Koreans all round, who also claimed gold in the Women’s 3000m Relay. Yu, Shin and Rim look perhaps the pick of their cohort of young racers, and could soon be joiningKim Gilli(KOR), who is showing her chops in senior racing after an exemplary junior career, in the main Korean team next season.
The Men’s 3000m Relay was won by China, who also took gold in the Mixed Team 2000m Relay.
More in '24
A third ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating event will follow in February 2024 (venue to be confirmed), before theISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championshipstake place in Gdansk, Poland from February 22-25.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union