#ShortTrackSkating

Shaoang Liu (CHN) won gold in the 500m race on Sunday in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
After 12 months off the competitive ice,Shaoang Liu(CHN) has been itching to get back into the game. At the Maurice-Richard Arena in Montreal on Sunday, the reigning Olympic 500m champion proved he is as sharp as ever.
Liu, who left Hungary for China at the end of the 2021-22 season, relocating to Beijing with his brotherShaolin Sandor Liu(CHN), won the 500m at the first ISU World Cup of the season in fine style.
He took the lead at the start of the race and proved too powerful forFelix Roussel(CAN), who finished second, andQuentin Fercoq(FRA). Sibling Shaolin crashed out towards the end of the race.
“I am really tired. We had a year’s rest, but it feels so great to come back,” said Shaoang. “To feel the pressure and to have this feeling for racing again is amazing. I am really happy. I can be here to represent China today, and that’s a great feeling. The race was exciting.”

Shaoang Liu (CHN) finished ahead of Felix Roussel (CAN) and Quentin Fercoq (FRA) in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
Shaoang said he gets “a bit nervous” when he skates in a final with his brother.
“We have that brotherly love and we have to watch out. Sadly, we didn’t both finish on the podium together. It didn’t work out today.
Shaoang doesn’t yet feel he’s competing at 100 per cent.
“I missed a lot, so I need to get back into the rhythm. I wasn’t very satisfied with my skating yesterday. I got a penalty that I deserved, but I feel like I can do much better, and I will do much better.”
He believes their new training set-up in Beijing could elevate the brothers to a new level.
“The facility is amazing. Everything is at such a high level. It is a huge difference. In China, they put everything together and they know how to prepare everything. We live on the fifth floor of the building. The ice rink, medical room, rehab rooms and warm-up rooms are on the third floor.
“On the second floor, we have a lounge and restaurant where we can eat. So all we need to do every day is to take a lift. It is crazy. I’ve never seen a facility like it from training in other countries: Hungary, USA and Korea.
“The most important thing is our health, so to have 24-hour medical support, always by the ice, is really good. If anything is happening, we can always react. We are in safe hands.”
He’s already looking forward to the ISU World Cup on home soil.
“When we have the competition in December in Beijing it is going to be a huge event, it is going to be a full house.”
Kim (KOR) claims first gold in four seasons
If Shaoang was relieved to be back to his winning ways, spare a thought forKim Gun Woo(KOR).
Kim was sensational in the 2018-19 season, winning four gold medals, but after picking up a three-month suspension in February 2019 he was off the team — and hadn’t graced a podium since.
That all changed in Montreal. Kim didn’t start the 1000m (2) as favorite. He was up against current ISU Crystal Globe holder and 1000m World ChampionPark Ji Won(KOR), who was victorious in the distance Saturday, andHwang Dae Heon(KOR), who won the 1500m on Day 1 in Montreal.
But Short Track can be fickle, and it was Kim who kept the coolest head on Sunday.
The local hero, speedyWilliam Dandjinou(CAN), held the lead for much of the 1000m tussle, but all three Republic of Korea racers tried to pass him on the final lap, and both Park and Hwang mistimed it, leading to a crash.
Kim surged ahead, withLuca Spechenhauser(ITA) emerging from the chaos with silver, and Dandjinou settling for bronze.

Kim Gun Woo (KOR) took gold ahead of Luca Spechenhauser (ITA) and William Dandjinou (CAN) in the 1000m (2) race in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
Kim said he was very happy with the result.
“The race was so difficult. It was really tough racing. It has been a very tough few years for me, a difficult situation, a personal struggle. To win again after these years is very pleasing. Finally, I am a winner again. That makes me very happy and excited. I am looking forward to the rest of the season now, and want to do well in more races.”
Canada delighted the home crowd in the men’s 5000m relay, meanwhile, winning gold ahead of Korea (silver) and Japan (bronze).

Canada took gold in the 5000m relay in Montreal, Canada, ahead of Republic of Korea and Japan. © ISU
The second ISU World Cup of the season takes place at the same venue next weekend, from Oct. 27 to 29.
For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union