#WorldShortTrack
Choi Minjeong(KOR) andXandra Velzeboer(NED) may have left it late, but both produced golden performances on Sunday to show that the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Championships Beijing were not only about Canada.
First up, Choi proved that on the biggest stages of all she remains queen of the 1500m.The two-time Olympic champion had not won a World Tour race in the longest discipline all season, but that did not matter as she outclassed the field to take her second 1500m World Championship gold, 10 years after her first.

Choi Minjeong (KOR) wins the Women's 1500m Finals at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing, China © ISU
It has not been such a long wait in the 500m for 2022 and 2023 champion Velzeboer, but after two days, in which she had fallen in two relay finals and managed bronze in the 1000m, the Dutch speedster was desperate for more sprint success. She duly delivered, but not before a drama-filled race that summed up a memorable Championships.

Thrilling 1500m final
After finishing second to Choi in the first women’s final of the day,Courtney Sarault(CAN) summed up the prevailing mood in a packed Capital Indoor Stadium.
“You should never underestimate anyone, especially the greats,” Sarault said. “She (Choi) showed up and she put herself in the best spot at the best time.”
In a race featuring the 1000m championHanne Desmet(BEL), as well as 11-time Olympic medalistArianna Fontana(ITA) and 2023/24 ISU Crystal Globe winnerKim Gilli(KOR), Choi did just that.
Having played her part in a fast-paced opening, Choi stayed out of trouble when Fontana and Desmet tangled and hit the ice. Then, with clear ice in front of her, the 26-year-old motored away to grab the gold that she had said pre-Championships was the one she wanted more than any other.
Gilli followed Sarault home to snatch bronze, and then could only laugh as her storied teammate celebrated so hard she fell to the ice.

Kim Gilli (KOR), Courtney Sarault (CAN), Choi Minjeong (KOR) in the Women’s 1500m at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing, China © ISU
“That’s the first time its happened,” Choi said with a smile afterwards. “I am so happy, 10 years ago I got my first gold medal in 1500m at the World Championships and after 10 years I got another one. It’s really good.
“It was a very tight race. Hanne (Desmet), Courtney (Sarault), Fontana all very good skaters. I am very happy.”
Gilli was “delighted” to share the podium with Choi, while for Sarault a second individual medal to go with two relay golds was almost more than she could comprehend.
“I think I am really emotional right now. Not because I got silver, but because I finally felt I could win again – and I haven’t felt that in a long time,” said Sarault, who delayed the start of her season having suffered significant mental and physical health issues.
“Everyone's journey is different. Some people have a gradual line to the top, and some people have a really big wavy line.
“Being able to be in the pack and race and do passes, and be back to the Short Track I love, is really nice. I'm loving the sport all over again.”

(L-R) Medalists Courtney Sarault (CAN), Choi Minjeong (KOR) and Kim Gilli (KOR) in the Women’s 1500m  in Beijing, China © ISU
500m provides drama-filled finale
The smile was back on Velzeboer’s face too after a 500m that proves she is undoubtedly the sprinter to catch.
The Dutchwoman had to do it the hard way too. Not only was the 500m the final event for the women at the end of a long three days, but also for once she did not reach the first corner in front.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED)  in the Women's 500m Finals at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing, China © ISU
Instead, it was a chargingRikki Doak, threatening to claim Canada’s seventh gold in nine events. But Velzeboer, the world record holder, did not panic. And having waited until the right moment, she burst past the Canadian and held on comfortably.
An emotionalNatalia Maliszewska(POL) claimed bronze, seven years after her last individual world medal.
“I can’t believe it. It was a goal for this weekend to become World Champion and I am so excited that I did,” Velzeboer said, before explaining how she got herself back on track after those relay falls.
“I just tried to go back to the good feeling I had from before the weekend, when everything was still open, and I was just super-excited. Then in the race I stayed pretty calm, kept my position and pulled off a good pass. I knew I didn’t need to rush it because I knew how much speed I have.”
Doak was delighted with silver, a first major individual medal, along with the women’s relay gold she won earlier in the day.

Rikki Doak (CAN) and Xandra Velzeboer (NED) in the Women's 500m Finals at the CNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Beijing, China © ISU
“It's surreal,” Doak said. “A crazy competition for us.”
While Poland cannot quite compete with Canada’s level of success, a silver and two bronze medals is still a mighty impressive haul. And Maliszewska was involved in all of them.
“I'm kind of speechless,” laughed the Pole. “It's another historical day for our country. I'm really proud of the team, and I'm really thankful for the support. And yeah at the end, I'm really proud of myself, too.”

Natalia Maliszewska of Poland after winning bronze in the Women's 500m Finals in Beijing, China © ISU
With that the Short Track 2024/25 concludes. As the skaters head off for very well deserved, if perhaps short holidays, the thoughts of many are already turning to next season and the Olympic Games Milano-Cortina 2026.

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the CNSG ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. Find the full list on the Where to Watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#WorldShortTrack.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union