The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2014/15 resumed today in Dresden, Germany with the Ladies and Men’s 500 m, the second Ladies and Men’s 1500 m, and the Relay finals.
Arianna Fontana (ITA) and Dmitry Migunov (RUS) claim victory in the 500 m
Arianna Fontana (ITA) dominated today’s 500 m final, by leading the race from start to finish. This was a very good result after having disappointing results at the recent European championships. Recently crowned European champion, Elise Christie (GBR), finished in second place, while World Cup leader for the distance, Kexin Fan (CHN) finished third. Her teammates Yue Lin and Yang Liu finished in fourth and fifth place respectively. The third place finish allows Fan to clinch the overall World Cup title in the 500 m.
On the Men’s side, Dmitry Migunov (RUS) won his third 500 m event of the season, with a pass on the last lap in today’s final. Migunov took the lead from Francois Hamelin (CAN), who had looked set to claim the win. Hamlin crossed the line in second place, with Yoon-Gy Kwak (KOR) finished in third place. Viktor Knoch (HUN) was fourth and Olivier Jean (CAN) was fifth, as he received a penalty. Migunov clinches the World Cup title for the distance.
Suk Hee Shim (KOR) and Semen Elistratov (RUS) top podium in the 1500 m events
The second Ladies 1500 m event was dominated once again by Korean skaters, with a second consecutive one-two finish of the weekend. Suk Hee Shim (KOR) finished ahead of her teammate Alang Kim, to take the win. Third place finisher was Jiaying Tao of China. Jessica Smith (USA) finished fourth, ahead of a trio of Canadian skaters: Valerie Maltais, Genève Belanger and Kim Boutin. Minjeong Choi (KOR) remains the World Cup classification leader for the distance.
The Men’s 1500 m event was won by Semen Elistratov (RUS) and in doing so, taking his second win of the weekend. Eight skaters were at the start line, and several lead changes, the event was exciting throughout the 13 and a half laps. Seungsoo Han (KOR) finished in second place, and Charles Hamelin (CAN) was third. Samuel Girard (CAN) crossed the finish line in fourth place, followed by John-Henry Krueger (USA). There was no change at the top of the World Cup classification since Da Woon Sin (KOR) claimed the title at the previous World Cup event.
Canada wins Ladies Relay and Netherlands does the same in the Men’s event
Canada won its first Relay event of the season with a first place finish in the Ladies’ 3000 m Relay final. The team led the race from start to finish, leaving the other three teams to battle for the remaining podium places. Italy edged out France for second place; Netherlands finished fourth. Despite ranking last this weekend, Korea maintains its lead in the World Cup classification for the distance.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was won by the Netherlands, who narrowly edged out Hungary. China was the third place finisher, while Korea finished fourth. The Netherlands maintains its lead in the World Cup classification for the distance.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series concludes in Erzurum (TUR) on February 13-5, 2015.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union