#ShortTrackSkating


Diane Sellier(POL) was on the brink of giving up on Short Track two years ago but an invitation from his coach Gregory Durand to leave France for Poland helped to change his mind.
His leap of faith got rewarded on Saturday as the 21-year-old secured the first Senior gold medal of his career by winning the 500m (1) in Almaty’s Halyk Arena.
Sellier made his ISU World Cup debut for France in 2019 but considered quitting the sport as the training base of the French Short Track team was located too far away from his hometown.

Three years after nearly giving up the sport, Diane Sellier (POL, right) wins his first Senior ISU World Cup gold. © ISU
He could barely spend any time at home with his family and friends, and started to feel unhappy. “I wanted to stop,” Sellier said. “But it was Gregory Durand who told me I was too young to stop. He said I had lot of talent. Gregory used to train me as a junior and gave me the opportunity to skate again in Poland.
“I got a very warm welcome when I joined the team. The atmosphere in Poland was way better for me. So I decided to just trust the process and put all my trust in Gregory.”
And luckily for the sport he did, as Sellier produced a spectacular inside pass onSteven Dubois(CAN) to take the lead with two laps to go. Sellier was able to hold on for a memorable victory, as Dubois had to settle for silver, with local heroDenis Nikisha(KAZ) bagging bronze.
“It’s crazy,” Sellier said. “Today I actually had the feeling this was possible. I told my coach, ‘I feel like I will surprise people today’. This is just amazing for me.
“I saw the moment. I took a long time to make the decision but then I went for it. I thought ‘OK I’ve enough speed now, so I can do it’. I took my chance and gave it my all, blocking every move to stay in front.
“When I crossed the line I thought directly about my coaches, my friends, my teammates and my family. I hope they are proud of me.”
Nikisha meanwhile took bronze in front of an adoring home crowd. The 27-year-old racer secured silver in last week’s 500m event on home ice and was hoping for more this time around.
He said: “Sometimes s**t happens. Sometimes not. That’s Short Track and why I love this sport. I always try to do my best. Today I wasn’t feeling really strong but never mind. I’m waiting for tomorrow [the 500m (2)].”
Park pulls it off again
Park Ji Won(KOR) proved once more that he is the man to beat this season. Park made it back-to-back victories in the 1500m during the fourth meeting of this ISU World Cup campaign.

Photo finish: Park Ji Won (KOR) has now won four individual ISU World Cup gold medals this season. © ISU
Park broke free from the field with three laps to go and never looked likely to be passed. The 26-year-old was joined on the podium by silver medalistStijn Desmet(BEL) and compatriot Hong Kyung Hwan, who took bronze.
“I don’t really have a strategy going into races,” Park said. “Also for this A Final I just focused on finding a way to win. And that worked out.
“I saw a gap in front of me and went for it. I like to win races so I enjoyed this one.”
Park has now won four individual World Cup gold medals this season; more than any other Men’s skater.
Find out who is in the running for the inaugural Crystal Globe Trophy
Based on the Overall World Cup Classification, the current leaders for the Crystal Globe Trophy are Park Ji Won (KOR) in the Men’s competition and Suzanne Schulting (NED) in the Women’s field.
Only 28 points separate him (568) from compatriotHong Kyung Hwan(540).Pascal Dion(CAN) sits in third with 397 points.
Schulting comfortably tops the standings with 612 points followed byCourtney Sarault(CAN, 478) andKim Gilli(KOR, 454).
Men's racing continues in Almaty with the 500m (2), 1000m and 5000m Relay finals on Sunday.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union