#ShortTrackSkating


Suzanne Schulting(NED) let out a scream of delight as she won the 500m (1) in Almaty’s Halyk Arena on Saturday butNatalia Maliszewskawas just as happy with silver; even happier perhaps, the Polish sprint specialist revealed after the race.
Maliszewska had been sidelined with a fever during the week and felt “hopeless” coming into the fourth ISU World Cup session of the season.
“I had a temperature of 39 degrees Celsius for almost three days and wasn’t able to skate up until yesterday,” Maliszewska explained minutes after the medal ceremony. “I just really wanted to be on the ice again.”
The 27-year-old admitted that “having been through worse situations” enabled her to overcome this setback.
“I’ve been through a lot in my life already, especially this year,” she said, referring to her Beijing 2022 heartbreak. The four-time World Cup sprint champion was in and out of the Games due to conflicting Covid-19 test results and ultimately banned from competing in the 500m event.
“That’s why I decided to train in Kazakhstan last summer. My mental health needed it. I chose the best team to train with, as I was able to smile and have fun every day. The Kazakh team made me the happiest I’ve ever been.”
Maliszewska fought offYara van Kerkhof(NED) to claim silver in the sprint distance, with Schulting simply producing more power than everyone else. Maliszewska felt “really grateful” to get on the podium.

Schulting (NED, left) wins gold but Maliszewska (POL, right) is just as happy with silver after struggling with illness © ISU
“To be back in Kazakhstan almost feels like home as well. I know a lot of people here and so many of them have congratulated me already. This is the best place to win a medal.”
Sarault claims top spot again
Courtney Sarault(CAN) picked up where she left off last week, claiming her second ISU World Cup gold in Almaty’s Halyk Arena. Sarault pippedHanne Desmet(BEL) andShim Suk Hee(KOR) in the 1000m, who took silver and bronze respectively.
Sarault, the 2021 World Championships overall silver medalist, stuck to the middle of the pack for much of the race, before making a move to the front with one lap remaining and never relinquished her lead.
“Going into the race I gave myself a plan,” Sarault said. “I think I was more nervous because I had this plan and I wanted to make sure I executed it properly.”

1000m winner Courtney Sarault (CAN) picks up her fourth World Cup gold and second in as many weeks.© ISU
“Normally I’m right in the front but this time I really wanted to wait until the last moment to pass because right now the legs and the body is a bit tired. I knew that If I wanted a medal I could go and do what I always do but if I wanted gold I had do it this way.
“I was really excited that it worked and that I made the pass on the straight. It’s crazy to win another gold. I’m really happy.”
Desmet felt like she lost just too much speed in the final lap to fend off Sarault.
“I made the right decision to be in the front of the pack towards the end of the race,” she said. “I just missed some speed and wasn’t able to defend my position. That was a shame as I really wanted to win today.”
Find out who is in the running for the inaugural Crystal Globe Trophy
Based on the Overall World Cup Classification, the current leaders for the Crystal Globe Trophy arePark Ji Won(KOR) in the Men’s competition and Suzanne Schulting (NED) in the Women’s field.
Only 28 points separate him (568) from compatriotHong Kyung Hwan(540).Pascal Dion(CAN) sits in third with 397 points.
Schulting comfortably tops the standings with 612 points followed by Courtney Sarault (CAN, 478) andKim Gilli(KOR, 454).
Women’s racing continues in Almaty with the 500m (2), 1000m and 3000m Relay finals on Sunday.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union