#ShortTrackSkating
Steven Dubois (L) and Shaoang Liu are two of the hot favorites after strong performances in Montreal, Canada © ISU

Things could not be clearer – or indeed more exciting – after two of the six 2023/24 ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating rounds: no one has any idea who will lift the coveted Crystal Globes, presented by Dunamu, come the end of the season.The home crowd will be hoping the Liu brothers – accompanied by the likes ofLin Xiaojun,Sun Longand returning Olympic ChampionRen Ziwei– will lead the China men’s team to glory at the latest ISU World Cup in Beijing, 8-10 December. But there is an ominously long list of challengers prowling in the wings.

Olympic Champion Ren Ziwei returns to action on his home ice of Beijing © ISU

If anything, things are even tighter on the women’s side. In a sign of the ever-growing global popularity of Short Track, five different nationalities are represented in the top six of the current overall women’s standings.
It is, whichever way you look it, great news for fans of the most dynamic sport on ice.
Men’s field wide open
Less than two years after the likes of Ren andWu Dajingdelighted spectators by helping China to two golds, a silver and a bronze at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games, the men’s home team is once again heading to the Capital Indoor Stadium looking formidable.
The crowd-pleasing brothersShaolinandShaoang Liuhave certainly already made an impact. Just months after formally switching their allegiance from Hungary, the ever-smiling duo helped China to mixed relay gold in the season-opening World Cup in Montreal (CAN). A second relay win, in the men’s 5000m, soon followed.Add on a Shaoang 500m title, plus individual podium places for Shaolin, Lin and Sun and it is clear the red-and-black clad skaters are to be feared on home ice.


Shaolin Liu celebrates victory at the ISU World Cup in Montreal, Canada © ISU

Not that those racing for the Republic of Korea will be too concerned. After all,Park Ji Won(KOR) is the reigning men’s World Cup Champion. Although even he has had to make way for compatriotKim Gun Woo.
The 25-year-old broke through in 2018/19, winning four times on the World Cup circuit, but after difficulties off the ice, he is only now returning to top form. Wins over 1000m and 1500m have put him clear at the top of the overall ranking and make him a favourite in Beijing.

Kim Gun Woo leads the World Cup standings after victory in Montreal, Canada © ISU

Another Korean back on medal-winning form is the formidableHwang Dae Heon. And he has a clear liking for the Capital Indoor Stadium, having won Olympic 1500m gold in 2022.
Two Canadians sit amongst this trio of Koreans inside the current world top five. Three-time Olympic medallistSteven Dubois(CAN) has been typically reliable this season. Two individual podiums and a host of solid efforts sees the Canadian start the weekend as Kim’s nearest challenger.
By contrast, teammateWilliam Dandjinou(CAN) is a new name on the scene. Before this season the 22-year-old had never been on an individual World Cup podium. Now he has a gold and a bronze to his name and is ready for more.

William Dandjinou celebrates his first World Cup gold in Montreal, Canada © ISU

Jordan Pierre-Gilleswas a fellow Canadian first-time individual World Cup winner in Montreal, whileFelix Roussel(CAN) has already marked his first full season on tour with a string of impressive results. Include fellow 22-year-old challengersLuca Spechenhauser(ITA) andJens van ‘t Wout(NED) and the Capital Indoor Stadium may see a genuine change of the guard.
Women set to put on a show
There is a similarly youthful feel to those likely to be contesting the women’s podium places in China’s capital.  At 19,Kim Gilli(KOR) is a fully fledged Short Track superstar. Last season she picked up a total of eight individual and relay World Cup titles and she has already added two more to that pile. More than enough to stand alone at the top of the rankings.

Kim Gilli heads the field in Beijing after winning at the World Cup in Montreal, Canada © ISU

Tactically and technically superb, Gilli has all the attributes of her three-time Olympic gold medal-winning idolChoi Min Jeong. Not bad company to keep when chasing a first Globe.
Behind her sits two ever maturing athletes, who will be eying up Beijing as a chance to close the gap on the teenager.Kristen Santos-Griswold(USA) is undoubtedly getting better season-on-season. Fortified by a new mental resilience, she claimed her second World Cup win in Montreal. Like last season, it’s her consistency (three additional podium places already) that makes her such a formidable opponent.

Kristen Santos-Griswold collected her second World Cup gold in Montreal, Canada © ISU

Belgium’sHanne Desmetlooks to be adding that quality to her undoubted talent. A winner of two out of the three 1500m World Cups so far, she is a serious contender – helped by her new coach, Joey Manita (USA), the former three-time world speed skating champion.

Hanne Dasmet has two 1500m wins so far this season after victory in Montreal, Canada © ISU

WithSuzanne Schulting(NED) on an extended break,Xandra Velzeboer(NED) has happily taken on the Dutch superstar mantle. The 500m world record holder and world champion would look to be almost unstoppable on Beijing’s fast ice, were it not for her teammateSelma Poutsma(NED). Two silvers in her two 500m races so far – the first behind Velzeboer – underlines that the women’s 500m is a particularly mouth-watering prospect.
Dutch duo Xandra Velzeboer (L) and Selma Poutsma are ones to watch in Beijing © ISU

For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union