Choi Min Jeong of the Republic of Korea won the 1000m at the Audi ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Budapest, bagging her third gold of the weekend and a clean sweep of the ladies’ individual events.
Having complained on Saturday of the pressure of being next year's big Olympic home hope, the 19-year-old looked more relaxed after winning gold on Sunday.
"I'm really happy. I feel more confident now than yesterday," she said.
"The final race was pretty easy because I had such good results yesterday and got a lot of confidence."
Choi suggested once again, however, that her condition is still just "60 per cent" of where she wants to be when the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games opens in four months.

Just as in Saturday's 1500m race, Kim Boutin (CAN) finished behind the Korean in second place. World champion Elise Christie (GBR), struggling with injuries in her front thigh, won bronze.
"I'm not very happy with it,” Christie said.
"There was a point where I didn't even know if I was going to skate in the semi-finals because of the pain in my leg. In the final, I didn't really feel like me. I don't feel like I have the same power and I don't feel that I can turn as much as normally," she said.
Her team had decided to race to get the points and Christie found light amid the gloom.
"If I'm coming third with a bad leg then there's hopefully more to come when my leg is better in a few weeks," she said.
"At the start of today I didn't think that I was tough enough mentally to go on and deal with this.
"But I managed to go through and win a medal which I'm obviously not happy with – I think anyone who wants to be at the top can never be happy with a bronze – but it could've been a lot worse."
In the ladies 1000m Final B, Valerie Maltais (CAN) won five seconds clear of Ekaterina Efremenkova (RUS) and Yara van Kerkhof (NED) after the chasing duo crashed into each other.
"She was passing me and I think she had too much speed and had to go to the other side, but I was there so we fell," van Kerkhof said.
Click here to see the full results.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union