
#ShortTrackSkating
The first-ever ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating will take placeat theElfstedenhalin Leeuwarden, Netherlands, from November 25-26. This exciting new event is one of two Junior World Cup competitions, with a repeat fixture at the same venue the following weekend, December 2-3.
A third Junior World Cup will follow in February 2024 (venue to be confirmed), before the Junior World Championships in Gdansk on February 22-25.
The World Cup competitions will award medals over 500m, 1000m and 1500m for both genders, with a 3000m relay for women and a 5000m relay for men, plus a 2000m mixed relay.
Stars of the future
Junior skating has long given an exciting glimpse into the future of Short Track at world and Olympic level.
At the 2017 World Championships,Shaoang Liuof Hungary (nowrepresentingChina) completed a clean sweep of the 500m, 1000m and 1500m.

Double Olympic Champion Shaoang Liu is one of the Short Track stars who shone at youth level © ISU

In Bormio 2020,Sun Long(CHN) andXandra Velzeboer(NED) were among the stars, while at Montreal 2019,Maame Biney(USA) andSeo Whi-minof Republic of Korea won titles.
Great skaters likeSuzanne Schulting(NED),Choi Min Jeong(KOR), andLee June-seo(KOR) have all previously made podiums, too.
Who from the 31 different nations attending will catch the eye of skating fans this time around?
Chinese and Koreans expected to lead the way
As ever, it is difficult to identify potential winners among a youthful field mainly unknown outside their homelands – but there are some familiar names to look out for.
China’sLi Kunmight well be the fastest skater at the event – he is skating sub-41 second 500m races and is already part of the senior Chinese relay team, which recently took gold at the Four Continents in Laval.

Li Kun (left) is already a Four Continents Champion at senior level with the Chinese 5000m relay team © ISU

Li also clocked an individual senior 9th place finish in the 500m last season in Almaty. Bring that form to Leeuwarden, and he could clean up at this level.
His teammateSong Jiarui(CHN) could star for the women: she has picked up silver and bronze at previous World Junior Championships, and the 17-year-old sensation is now part of the Chinese senior team, too.

Song Jiarui is a multi-medal winner at World Junior Championships © ISU

At recent Junior competitions, however, powerhouse Short Track nation Republic of Korea have led the way.
Last season Shin Dong Min (KOR) got two silvers at the Junior Worlds. He and his teammates took most of medals on offer – and Shin is back this time around and looking for golds.

World Junior medalist Shin Dong Min will lead Republic of Korea's challenge for medals © ISU

Rim Jongun (KOR) also looks extremely quick, while on the women’s side, both Yu Sumin (KOR) and Kim Minji (KOR) have been recording impressive times.
Who else might get into contention?Angel Daleman(NED) and Bas van der Valk (NED) have been impressing in Holland, while Qi Miao (CAN) and Gabriel Jones (CAN)were recently crownedCanadian junior championsand are highly rated. Miao has already stepped up to the senior squad.
And one to watch outside of the traditional nations:Peter Groseclose(PHI) is a young American-born athlete who has chosen to represent his mother’s home country, the Philippines, and has experience at senior level. Might his flag fly on a Short Track podium for the first time?
Qualifying for individual distances will take place on the Saturday, with 1500m and 1000m (1) to follow; Sunday will see the 500m, 1000m (2), and three relay races take place.
For more information, entries and results, visit theevent page.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union