#OneHandDown#WCShortTrack
Russia’sSofia Prosvirnovastole the show with her first ever individual World Cup victory in the 1000m on a day of high-octane Short Track speed skating action in Dresden’s Energieverbund Arena on Saturday. Having jostled for the lead throughout with Poland’s sprint sensationNatalia Maliszewskaand Choi Ji Hyun(KOR), the podium places were only decided on the final bend when Maliszewska caught an edge and went down, leaving Prosvirnova free to power past the Korean. Italy’s Cynthia Mascitto took the bronze.

Sofia Prosvirnova (RUS) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
The ladies’ 1500m proved just as dramatic. The final seemed to be set up as a showdown between the two women currently topping the overall world rankings,Suzanne Schulting(NED) andChoi Min Jeong(KOR). But in a sign of the strength-in-depth of the sport, both were outshone. In an eight-woman final the lead changed hands throughout before Korea’sKim Ji Yooburst past PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Games triple medalist Kim Boutin to snatch gold on the line. Schulting, winner of four individual World Cup titles already this season, was left in third with world No.1 Choi out of the medals in fourth.

Zhang Chutong (CHN) Suzanne Schulting (NED) Kim Ji Yoo (KOR) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Dutch superstar Suzanne Schulting lit up the final day of racing to cement her status as the world’s very best. The reigning Olympic 1000m champion has now won four out of the six 1000m World Cup races this season. As is her style, she dominated from the gun in Dresden’s Energieverbund Arena. “Suzanne is so good,”Kim Ji Yoo, Korea’s 1000m silver medallist, said with a shake of her head, while bronze medal winnerZhang Chutong(CHN) admitted that she would “have to get a lot better to beat Suzanne”.

Lara van Ruijven (NED) Martina Valcepina (ITA) Natalia Maliszewska (POL) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Italy’sMartina Valcepinagave a similarly dominant display in the ladies’ 500m. The three-time European champion led her 500m quarterfinal and semifinal from the startline to the finish and then repeated the trick in the final. Despite her wire-to-wire victory, Valcepina still lies well behind Poland’sNatalia Maliszewskain the season-long 500m World Cup standings. Fresh from winning her country’s first ever individual European title, Maliszewska grabbed bronze on Sunday in her favoured sprint, withLara van Ruijven(NED) in second.
In a mesmerising display, the Korean men claimed four of the six medals on offer, including gold in both the 1500m and 1000m.Hwang Dae Heon(KOR) won the 1000m, while CanadianCharle Cournoyerensured the Koreans did not have it all their own way. The two-time Olympic medalist recovered from a bad mistake early on to split the three Koreans, grabbing silver and pushingHong Kyung Hwaninto bronze.

Charle Cournoyer (CAN) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
In what was undoubtedly the race of the day,Kim Gun Woo(KOR) came flying through the field on the final bend to take gold in the 1500m. The photo-finish placedCharles Hamelin(CAN) withLim Hyo Jun(KOR) in third and the unluckySteven Dubois(CAN) in fourth. Just 0.098 seconds separated the top four.

Charles Hamelin (CAN) Kim Gun Woo (KOR) Lim Hyo Jun (KOR) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Korea’s all-conquering men’s team picked up two more gold medals at the Energieverbund Arena on Sunday to seal a whitewash of the individual men’s events. The world’s dominant team produced a sublime display of race craft as firstLim Hyo Junand thenPark Ji Wonpounced in the closing stages to win the 500m and 1000m golds respectively. Korea’s weekend whitewash is the first of the World Cup season.

Hwang Dae Heon (KOR) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
The 1500m Olympic champion finished just ahead of compatriotHwang Dae Heon, who won the opening 1000m final on Saturday. In total the Korean men claimed seven out of the 12 individual medals on offer in Dresden. Canada’sCedrik Blaisadmitted he feels “lucky just to race” against the Koreans. However, the 22- year-old did enough to secure the 500m bronze in his first ever World Cup final.

Hwang Daeheon (KOR) Lim Hyo Jun (KOR) Cedrik Blais (CAN) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Israel’sVladislav Bykanovtook a similar attitude into the 1000m final, reminding himself that it is “really fun to race against” the Koreans and “even better if you can beat them”. Bykanov held his position at the front throughout but was powerless to stop Korea’s Park from bursting past with a lap to go.Sebastien Lepape, the Frenchman, finished third.

Vladislav Bykanov (ISR) Park Ji Won (KOR) Sebastien Lepape (FRA) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Dresden (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
The weekend’s action ended with a hugely entertaining men’s 5000m relay featuring falls, penalties and even a headfirst dive for the line. The gold medal eventually went to Canada, but it was far from a smooth ride. Japan took the silver medal position and Hungary the bronze.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union