This year's ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championship was held in Melbourne, Australia. Ms. Suk Hee Shim and Mr. Se Yeong Park, both fromKorea,were crowned 2012 ISU World Junior Short Track Champions.
The world's best junior aged short track speed skaters, representing 28 countries were in attendance for this 3-day event.Thesechampionships were once again dominated by the Korean skaters, with their team earning a total of 16 medals out of possible 30. In the ladies competition, Korea swept the podium with Shim finishing ahead of teammates Hyun Su Hwang (second) and Se Jun Ahn (third). On the men's side, Park took the World Championship title by a mere three points over teammate Hyo Been Lee. Tianyu Han of China was third.
The weekend began with the 1500m events. On the podium in the ladies competition, it was an all Korean affair: Suk Hee Shim started her quest for the World Junior Championship title by taking thewin in the distance ahead of her teammate Hyun Sun Hwang. Se Jun Ahn finished third. On the men's side, eventual World Champion Se Yeong Park started off his weekend the same way by winning the 1500m event. Second place went to Hyo Been Lee of Korea, while John Henry Krueger of the United States was third.
In the Ladies500m, Shim won her second event in two days. Agne Sereikaite of Lithuania was second, and Xue Wang of China was third. The Men's 500m event was won by Hyo Been Lee earning his second medal of the weekend. Tianyu Han was second, while Alexandre St-Jean of Canada was third.
On the last day of the weekend, the championship titles were still up for grabs in both the ladies' and men's competition. In the Ladies 1000m event, the winner was Shim, with teammate Hwang finishing second. Xue Wang of China was third. Shim also broke the World Junior Record in the race. In the men's event, Park took his second distance win of the weekend, ahead of Dequan Chen of China. Third place went to Hyo Been Lee of Korea.
Entering the final race of he weekend, the Ladies Championship title was already determined, however, things were still undecided on the men's side. In the Ladies 1500m Super Final, it was an all Korean podium. Hwang took the win, ahead of teammates Ahn (second) and Shim (third). In the men's event, Park clinched the overall title by finishing fourth, the win however in the 1500m Super Final went to Tianyu. John-Henry Krueger finished second, while Hyo Been Lee took third place.
The weekend's racing concluded with 3000m Relay events. The ladies event was won by the team from Korea. China was second, and Russia was third. In the men's event, it was close race between Korea and China, with Korea taking the win. The team from the United States completed the podium in third place.
Results
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union