
#ShortTrackSkating
Suzanne Schulting(NED) arrived at the ISU European Short Track Championships 2023 in Gdansk, Poland with the declared intention of returning home with five gold medals, vowing “I’m the favourite on every single distance, and I’d like to win everything”. She duly completed parts one and two of her mission on Saturday in singular style.
The Dutch racer, who has dominated the last three European Championships, triumphed in both the 1500m and 500m, despite some stern challenges.
Schulting holds off Desmet in 1500m
The 1500m – a European Championship distance Schulting has won at the last three editions of this competition – was perhaps closer than she would have liked.
Anna Seidel(GER) led the race early, with Schulting staying close to the front. But she hit the front with eight laps to go, and fended off very fast late charges from Seidel, who finished third, andHanne Desmet(BEL), who was second in a tight finish.

Suzanne Schulting (NED) celebrates victory in the 1500m at the European Championships, the first of five golds she is targeting this weekend. @ISU
“I’m so happy. This is a great start of the tournament,” said Schulting.
“I want to show I’m the best of Europe, that’s what this weekend is all about. But I know winning all golds here is not something that can be done easily. I really have to stay focused on winning all the time.
"I knew Hanne and Anna were my main opponents in this race, so I was focused in order to keep them behind, especially Hanne.”
Belgian Desmet, who trains with the Netherlands team, knows all about trying to catch the world No.1.
“It was beautiful short track, fighting until the end, it was really close,” she said. “I would like to have won, obviously, but Suzanne is not bad!
“I’ve been in good form. I feel really good, better every month, I’ve made a lot of progress over the last two years.
“Suzanne knows where to go, she was skating great. I had great speed but nowhere to go. She is a smart racer.”

Hanne Desmet (BEL) took 1500m silver and Anna Seidel (GER) the bronze - her fifth at a European Championships. @ISU
Seidel wants to target further improvement.
“I’m happy, although I’m sick of always getting the bronze, I kind of wanted to go for more,” she said.
“But I’ve been really sick this week so I’m happy I made it onto the ice and won a medal. It was an exciting finish.
“I stayed back a little and hesitated because they were battling, I didn’t want to risk anything. But maybe I should work on that mindset and try to risk something for the gold.
“Suzanne is really dominant and I have so much respect for her, but I try not to put her on a pedestal too much.
“She deserves a lot because she is a hard worker. But me and Hanne work hard too, and I think it is not like some years ago where she had huge gaps. We are getting closer.”
Mission accomplished in 500m
The 500m was thrown open when the current World Champion,Xandra Velzeboer(NED) was disqualified in the early rounds.
Schulting advanced steadily to the final, but the loud Gdansk crowd were firmly behind local heroNatalia Maliszewska(POL). In the final, Schulting got to the front early, stalked by the Pole, who was champion over this distance in 2019.

Schulting (NED) and Natalia Maliszewska (POL) led the field from early in the 500m final, the Dutchwoman staying clear for gold #2. @ISU
The pair got well ahead of the field, but Maliszewska couldn’t find a way past the Dutchwoman, and Schulting had her second gold of the competition.Arianna Valcepina(ITA) was third.
“My 500m races last year were a lot better compared to how they go now,” said Schulting.
“I think that’s the reason why I am so happy with today’s victory, because obviously this was the most difficult one for me.
“My 1000m and 1500m run like a charm. In the 500m, it’s a bit more difficult getting off the starting line. My tactic was basically to just start as fast as possible and to speed up. This gold medal shows how [good] all round I am. It gives a nice feeling.”
Maliszewska was overwhelmed with emotion at the finish.
“It is my first competition in an atmosphere like this and I couldn’t imagine it better,” she said.
“To have second place at home, there was an explosion of emotions. I am so grateful for all the people that came. My heart is melting.

Home hero Maliszewska (POL) was overwhelmed by the support of the Gdansk crowd which included family members. @ISU
“It was a close race but Suzanne is so experienced and knows what to do. I saw my dad at the end, and this is the medal for him. It is the best day of my life, because I’ve never seen him cry with happiness before.”
Racing continues tomorrow, with Schulting gunning for the 1000m – her favourite distance – before combining with the Netherlands’ world-record holding women’s relay team, and brilliant mixed relay line-up, to try to make it five golds out of five.
For all information about the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships, please visit webpagehere.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships competitions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union