
#WorldShortTrack #UpAgain
Shaoang Liu (HUN) after winning the Men's 1000m race on Sunday © International Skating Union
Back to back: it’s the goal of every athlete attempting to defend a title at a world championships. AddShaoang Liu(HUN) to the list of athletes who have achieved it.
Liu’s dominance continued on Sunday, as he won the 1000m final at the World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Montreal, clinching the overall title for the second year in a row.
The Hungarian won every individual race he skated on the weekend, aside from the 3000m Super-final, which took place after he had clinched first overall.
Liu made it look easy with his graceful style, always finding a way to make a late move to cross first if he sat towards the back of the pack.
But it was not as easy as it looked for the champ.
“I think (the 1000m final) was the hardest race I ever had in my life. I had to keep my head 100 percent focused. Today was special because I didn’t have a good sleep or good recovery. I had to keep calm in my mind,” said Liu.

Shaoang Liu (HUN), June Seo Lee (KOR) and Yoon-Gy Kwak (KOR) finished first, second and third in the 1000m © International Skating Union
As smooth as he is on the ice and as serene as he is off it, Liu is always on the move. During the event, he often could be seen running in the parking lot, pulling off wild box-jump workouts, or jogging in the underbelly of the arena between his victories on the ice.
“I put my headphones in and just put the music as loud as possible so I couldn’t fall asleep. Staying focused all the time is super hard but I managed it, and that is amazing,” said Liu.
The 24-year-old Hungarian was not the only previous world champion to make his mark in Montreal this weekend.
Charles Hamelin(CAN), the 2018 overall world champion, ended his storied career in front of adoring fans by leading Canada to a bronze medal in the 5000m relay. Hamelin is a legend in the sport, with 14 world championship titles and four Olympic gold medals to his name.
The hometown hero took time after his final race to skate one last lap with his young daughter in his arms, a moment that was perhaps more important than any medal.

Charles Hamelin (CAN) took a lap with his daughter after the 5000m Relay on Sunday © International Skating Union
“It means a lot to me. I was searching for that for a long time since she was born. She is a little older, but maybe she didn’t understand what was happening. But I am sure she enjoyed the moment with me. It was one of the things I wanted to do, and I am glad it happened here in Montreal,” said Hamelin.
Despite not going out with gold, this weekend was memorable for Hamelin.
“It is one of the best things that happened to me. The chance to finish at home, with my family in the stands, is the greatest feeling. It is almost like any Olympics I went to,” he said.
Hamelin capped his weekend with a Formula 1-style champagne shower on the podium with the Canadian, Dutch and Korean relay medalists.
It is easy to wonder if it has been nerve-wracking for Hamelin to contemplate trading the cheering crowds and thrills of victory for watching cartoons and making sandwiches as a full-time dad.
“No, I just can’t wait,” Hamelin said.


Korea won gold in the 5000m Relay ahead of Netherlands and Canada© International Skating Union

The bronze for Hamelin and the Canadians came in a thrilling relay race that saw the Korean team charge back to win over the final laps. The Netherlands took silver.
The Koreans did not have much time to build chemistry, missing key members due to Covid-19.
“I worried a lot about this relay because some of our teammates tested positive and did not come to the world championships, so we didn’t practise too much with this team. But how we did it? I don’t know, but we made it. Wow. It is a crazy day,” saidYoon-Gy Kwak(KOR), who anchored the final leg.
Kwak also took bronze in the 1000m, with teammateJune Seo Lee(KOR) winning silver.

Pascal Dion (CAN) after the 3000m Super-Final on Sunday © International Skating Union
Pascal Dion(CAN) won the 3000m Super-final to clinch second place in the overall standings. Lee, who finished second in the 3000m ahead ofSjinkie Knegt(NED), was third overall.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union