#ShortTrackWorldTour

Park Jiwon (KOR) and Roberts Kruzbergs (LAT) may have been racing different distances against contrasting opponents but both skaters could agree on one thing on the opening day of the ISU Short Track World Tour Seoul presented by KB Financial Group:no one can match the strength of the Canadian Ice Maples right now.

First William Dandjinou, described by Park as “the best”, went out and took total control of a high-quality men’s 1500m field. In the process, the 23-year-old increased his lead at the top of the ISU Crystal Globe rankings to 286 points.
William Dandjinou (CAN) celebrates after winning the men's 1500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul. © ISU

Then, just a couple of hours later, teammate Steven Dubois, already a three-time Olympic medallist, stamped his authority on the 500m, grabbing yet another gold medal. Dubois may just possess the “best start ever” of a sprinter according to bronze medallist Kruzbergs.

It all added up to a mighty impressive Saturday for the Canadian Ice Maples, an outfit that looks almost unbeatable in the ISU Crystal Globe Team race.

Dandjinou relishes Park rivalry

The 1500m kicked the medal proceedings off in the Mokdong Ice Rink, with a field that according to Dandjinou “had all the best” in it. Facing three Canadian Ice Maples and two Dutch Lions, Park did his very best to give the crowd what they wanted. But having attempted to control the pace from the outset, the Korean White Tiger found himself momentarily crowded out with five laps to go.

Dandjinou did not need a second invitation and in the space of half a lap, the towering skater drove out in front and created daylight between himself and the rest. By the bell, Dandjinou was metaphorically out of sight.

A post-race penalty for Dubois left Park in silver – the second time in three 1500m World Tour races that the No.1 and 2 in the Crystal Globe rankings have finished first and second. The 2024 world championship 1500m silver medallistJens van 't Wout (NED)took bronze.
Silver medallist Park Jiwon (KOR), gold medallist William Dandjinou (CAN) and bronze medallist Jens van 't Wout (NED) after the men's 1500m. © ISU

“I knew the 1500m was going to feel a little bit like a 1000m just because of how strong the field was on this one,” Dandjinou said. “So I knew I had to be in front pretty early and when I saw I was second and Jiwon was first, I was like I can’t stay in that position too long because that’s where he is comfortable. So I decided to play my luck and I think it paid off.

“Having some kind words from Jiwon is always really appreciated, especially since I grew up watching his races, so it really feels cool. I also think it’s very good for the sport that we have a good rivalry. It stays cordial but on the ice we fight it off.”

For Park, the race was exhausting.

“One Canadian is hard, three Canadians is too hard and two Dutch,” said the defending Crystal Globe champion, who remains second in this season’s race. “It was a chess game. My brain is very tired.”

Van 't Wout was left wondering where he needs to improve.

“If you watch the race, I got pushed around quite a bit and maybe that’s something that I do technically wrong skating,” the Dutch Lion said. “I’ll take the medal at the end but of course no one wants bronze.”

Life rosy for sprint king Dubois

Two golds and two silver medals in the four men’s ISU World Tour 500m races so far this season is ample evidence as to why teammate Jordan Pierre-Gilles was another singing Dubois’ praises on Saturday in Seoul.

“He’s absolutely dominant at this distance right now,” Pierre-Gilles said.

This after the Canadian Ice Maple had claimed silver, his first sprint medal of the season after collecting five, including a world championship bronze in 2023/24. Getting out in front at the first corner is a key skill in the 500m and one Dubois has long finessed.

Steven Dubois (CAN) skating ahead in the men's 500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour at Mokdong Ice Rink. © ISU

“I’ve worked a lot on it for sure," he said. "I wasn’t always winning my starts, I wasn’t always dominant.

“Today it was very orientated to people with good starts but I think I am versatile with ice such as Beijing (very fast ice) and here. Maybe that’s why I am standing out a bit.

“If I have a shot at Salt Lake City (famously the quickest ice on the planet) next season I’ll be going for that world record. I am pretty happy how I am skating.”

No one got near him in Seoul to be fair, with Pierre-Gilles having to show all his combative best to get the better of Kruzbergs on the line. The fact he was anywhere on the podium was a huge relief to the Canadian Ice Maple.

“I’ve been having a couple of doubts that I had what it took still to make it on to the podium in the 500m,” said Pierre-Gilles. “For now they (his doubts) are gone and they are going to stay gone for a couple of days for sure.”

Bronze for Kruzbergs also dispelled some long-held misbeliefs.

“I hope this medal will prove to me that it is possible for me to skate short distances also,” said the skater after claiming his first 500m world-level medal. “I am trying to improve.”

Kruzbergs and the rest will all get another chance to show their best on Sunday, when the fourth leg of the ISU World Tour comes to a close with the men’s 1000m and 5000m relay, as well as the women’s 1500m and 500m, plus the mixed relay.

Do not miss it.
ISU Team Crystal Globe standings:
1. Canadian Ice Maples – 5430 points
2. Korean White Tigers – 4548 points
3. Dutch Lions – 3667 points

ISU Men’s Individual men’s Crystal Globe standings:
1. William Dandjinou – 812 points
2. Park Jiwon – 526 points
3. Jens van ’t Wout – 500 points

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union