Minjeong Choi (KOR) and Charles Hamelin claim wins in the 500 m
Minjeong Choi of Korea claimed the win in the second Ladies’ 500 m event of the weekend. Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) earned the second place finish and Yutong Han (CHN) settled for third. Kexin Fan finished fourth. St-Gelais leads the World Cup classification for the distance after the first two World Cup events.
On the Men’s side, Charles Hamelin (CAN) won an exciting 500 m event; an event that saw five skaters at the start line. Hamelin led the race from start to finish to claim Canada’s first of three gold medals of the day. Shaolin Sandor Liu (HUN) finished in second place ahead of his teammate Viktor Knoch who was third. Dmitry Migunov (RUS) finished in fourth while Samuel Girard (CAN) received a penalty. Despite the penalty, Girard leads the World Cup classification for the distance.
Suk Hee Shim wins the 1000 m in consecutive World Cup events
Suk Hee Shim of Korea won her second Ladies 1000 m event in as many weekends, and maintains her lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. Elise Christie (GBR) claimed second place and Valerie Maltais (CAN) finished in third place. Jorien ter Mors (NED) finished fourth.
On the Men’s side, Charle Cournoyer (CAN) claimed his first individual World Cup gold medal with a dominating performance in the 1000 m. Yi Ra Seo (KOR) finished second, ahead of his teammate Yoon-Gy Kwak. Jingnan Shi (CHN finished in fourth and leaves Toronto leading the World Cup classification.
Korea and Canada claim gold medals in the Relay events
For s second consecutive weekend, the Ladies’ 3000 m Relay was won by Korea. The win extends Korea’s lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. China finished in second place, while Russia took advantage of a fall by Canada late in the race, to take the third podium spot.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was closely contested between all four countries. Canada, cheered on by a sold out crowd, took the win to claim a gold medal. Korea earned second place while China finished in third. The podium gives China enough points to maintain the lead in the World Cup classification.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series continues in Nagoya (JPN) on December 4-6, 2015.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union