#ShortTrackSkating

‘Controlled’ Dubois and ‘nerveless’ Park seal first Four Continents titles
They may have done it in very different ways but Canada’sSteven Duboisand KoreanPark Ji Wonwill both wake up on Saturday in Salt Lake City knowing they are ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating champions.
For Dubois the feeling will be particularly welcome. Three years ago he left the 2020 Championships having come second in all three individual races, enough to scoop him the overall silver medal too.

Steven Dubois (CAN) paced his race perfectly to lead the Four Continents 500m from the first corner.© ISU
“I definitely didn’t want to finish second in every race again,” the 25-year-old laughed after producing a highly efficient display in the 500m.
Dubois led from the first corner but this was no mad-dash sprint from the gun. Instead, the Canadian paced himself beautifully, keeping a careful eye on what was going on behind him and in particular blocking China’sZhong Yuchen, who threatened to pass him several times early on.
Maxime Laoun(CAN) crossed the line in second place, even if he was on his behind and facing the wrong way at the time. In the end the Canadian was penalised for an earlier offence, withAndrew Heo(USA) delighted to take silver and Laoun’s close friendPascal Dion(CAN) promoted to bronze medal position.

Maxime Laoun (CAN) crossed the line on his behind but was later penalised, allowing Andrew Heo (USA, left) to take 500m silver.© ISU
But there is no doubting whose race this was.
“I’m really pleased, it was very controlled,” Dubois said. “I did what I wanted to do, I knew I didn’t want to be passed at high speed and I wanted to be more aware of what was going on behind me.
“I think that race is going to really help me going forwards. I want to win more consistently.”
The USA’s Heo is similarly intent on using his shock result to boost his World Cup prospects.
“It’s a really good confidence booster,” said the 21-year-old, who is yet to win an individual World Cup medal of any colour. “This season I have been trying to build it up. It’s a reward for all the work.”
Walk in the park for world No.1
At the other end of the scale, Park Ji Won (KOR) is a serial World Cup winner and revealed that he felt utterly at home on the famous Utah Olympic Oval.

Park Ji Won (KOR) was relaxed on his way to victory in the 1500m at the Four Continents Short Track Championship.© ISU
“I was really relaxed, I didn’t feel any pressure,” said Park, who finished a gasp-inducing 1500m in a time of 2:16.49 to edge out compatriotHong Kyung Hwan. Dubois grabbed bronze.
“I never get nervous,” Park continues. “I came to the rink today and the sun was shining and I just felt really good.”
The man who currently tops the overall ISU World Cup classification after an electric start to the season, certainly looked good. He and Hong took the lead early but Dubois and Australia’sBrendan Corey– who finished fifth – made sure the Koreans were tested all the way to the line.
Hong, who followed his countryman to the front for the second time at the last lap bell, had the best seat in the house.

Hong Kyung Hwan (KOR) followed compatriot Park across the line to make it a Korean 1-2 in the 1500m.© ISU
“He’s so strong, he’s got very good skills,” Hong, the 2023 overall Junior world champion, said of Park. “It was fun racing with him, being one-two.”
Park has a remarkable record, having won 13 individual World Cup career titles to date – including one this season already. But surprisingly, the 26-year-old had never triumphed at a World Championships or Four Continents before.
“Maybe I can win another one now,” he said as he looked ahead to Saturday’s 1000m. But then the experienced racer caught himself. “It is Short Track though, so you never know anything.”
He and his compatriots will also line-up in what is set up to be a high-octane men’s 5000m relay final on the final day of racing. Korea are the reigning world champions and they will face Canada, who took the Olympic title earlier this year. Do not miss it.
For all information about the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships, please visit webpagehere.

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday races via their national broadcaster/channel. You will find the full list of available channels on the Where to watch webpagehere.
For countries where there are no broadcasters, the ISU will offer a live stream of the qualification and repechage rounds on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. Make sure to subscribe to receive live stream notifications.

ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships events 2022/23:
Nov 10 - 12, 2022ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Salt Lake City (USA)
Jan 13 - 15, 2023ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Jan 27 - 29, 2023ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Dresden (GER)
Mar 10 - 12, 2023ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Seoul (KOR)
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union