#ShortTrackSkating
The Dutch women's team take home a clutch of medals from Beijing, China © ISU

The Dutch women’s Short Track speed skating team continued their love affair with Beijing’s Capital Indoor Stadium, winning gold-silver-gold in the space of little more than 30 minutes on Day 2 of the ISU World Cup. But they were not the only nation celebrating a one-two, withKristen Santos-Griswold(USA) leading home teammateCorinne Stoddardin the 1000m.
First up, the Netherlands. Fresh from winning a debut 1500m World Cup medal on Saturday,Xandra Velzeboer(NED) had yet another day in the Chinese capital she will never forget. All season, she and teammateSelma Poutsma(NED) have looked like a class apart in the sprint and so it proved in the final of the 500m(2) despite the capacity crowd roaring on rivalsFan Kexin(CHN) andWang Xinran(CHN).


Xandra Velzeboer (NED) and Selma Poutsma celebrate a 1-2 in the Women's 500m(2) in China © ISU

As is her way, Poutsma reached the first corner in front but even she did not quite have the gas to hold off her world record-holding compatriot.
“The goal from me is always go away as fast as possible. I know she is chasing me with such fast lap times. I mean I was going all out and she still passed me,” Poutsma said after the pair had left the field reeling in their wake. “I am just happy to see that we are both on such a high level,” she added.
The locals did get some recompense with Fan adding a bronze to go with the 500m(1) silver she won on day one.


Selma Poutsma (NED), Xandra Velzeboer (NED) and Fan Kexin (CHN) on the podium in Beijing, China © ISU

The Chinese women did not reach the relay final after an uncharacteristic display in the quarters. But even if they had it is unlikely they could have got past the Dutch in this kind of form. Not only are they reigning Olympic and world relay champions but all four of their team reached a 500m A final over the course of the weekend in Beijing.
“Definitely today I really felt like ‘yeah we can do this and we are so good’,” said Velzeboer, who overtook the Canadians in the closing stages. “In the last two laps I was pretty calm in my head and I felt the trust that the team has in me. That feels really empowered actually.”
Canada were eventually penalised for having an inactive skater on the track, leaving Republic of Korea free to claim silver with Poland in third taking what the team believed to be their first ever women’s World Cup relay medal.
“It’s cool to make history,”Nikola Mazur(POL) said.


Dutch Women's Relay team in Beijing, China © ISU

Stars and Stripes fly high in Beijing
Mazur was not the only one revelling in the feeling of creating memories. The USA’s Santos-Griswold should be getting accustomed to winning World Cup titles but it was a fresh feeling to have someone also clad in the Stars and Stripes right next to her.
“It’s my first time on top of the podium with a teammate by my side. Not only a teammate, literally one of my best friends. A really special feeling. Something I will probably cherish forever,” Santos-Griswold said after finishing just ahead of Stoddard in the 1000m final.
“I didn’t realise who was behind me until after I crossed then I saw it was her and literally screamed. I think my voice has gone because of that now.”



Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) and Corinne Stoddard (USA) with their Women's 1000m medals in Beijing, China © ISU

Much like Poutsma and Velzeboer in the 500m, Stoddard had led her storied teammate for much of the race but was unable to hold Santos-Griswold off. Not that she minded too much.
“That was really fun,” Stoddard said. “I don’t know when the last time that happened for the US, but it felt really good.”
The pair had been in the 1500m final together on Saturday and Stoddard was particularly pleased that she proved to herself she had learned a valuable lesson.



Corinne Stoddard (USA) leads the way in the Women's 1000m in Beijing, China © ISU

“For some reason when I got to the final yesterday I wasn’t really using my head and didn’t really go to the front at all and that didn’t work out very well. So today I was like ‘you have to go to the front, even if you don’t trust it, you have to’.”
With Korea’s 19-year-old starKim Gillifading in the latter stages of the race – perhaps feeling the heat after her gold medal-winning exertions on Saturday – the stage was free forGong Lito grab bronze. A welcome second medal in Beijing for the young local.
Gong will have little time to celebrate, however, with all eyes now turning to the fourth World Cup of the season taking place in Seoul, 15-17 December.

For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union