The ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2015 concluded today with the crowning of this year’s individual and team champions. Elise Christie (GBR) was crowned the Lady 2015 ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Champion, while Sjinkie Knegt (NED) took the championship title on the men’s side. In the team events, the relay champions for both the ladies and men’s events were Russia.
Prosvirnova (RUS) and Knegt (NED) win the 1000 m events
The final day of the championship did not begin very well for classification leader Elise Christie (GBR). During the semifinals round, Christie was awarded a penalty and did not earn any championship points. This opened the door for her rivals to get closer in the overall points standing. Sofia Prosvirnova (RUS) took advantage of the situation, by winning the Ladies 10000 m event. Arianna Fontana (ITA) finished second to pick up some valuable championship points, while Agne Sereikaite of Lithuania finished third. This was her first European championship podium.
In the men’s competition, championship leader Sjinkie Knegt (NED) extended his lead with a win in the 1000 m finals. He was followed close behind by teammate Freek Van der Wart, while Semen Elistratov (RUS) was third. Victor An of Russia was fourth. Knegt’s win meant that he had clinched the European championship title before entering the final race of the weekend; the remaining two podium places were still up for grabs.
Ladies 3000 m Super Final determines championship winner
Entering the ladies 3000m Super Final, Sofia Prosvirnova (RUS) was leading the overall classification by just eight points, over Elise Christie (GBR). The two skaters were the only ones in contention for the overall title, whereas Arianna Fontana (ITA), Patrycja Maliszewska (POL), Veronique Pierron (FRA), Agne Sereikaite (LTU) and Charlotte Gilmartin (GBR) were still in striking distance for that third and final championship podium spot. Maliszewska (POL) prevailed for that third championship podium spot by leading the race the race from start to finish, something that’s rarely seen in this distance. Christie (GBR) had a solid race and with her second place finish clinched the overall European championship title; Pierron (FRA) finished in third place in the race. Prosvirnova (RUS) crossed the line in sixth place, and ends these championships in second place in the overall classification.
Vladislav Bykanov (ISR) wins the Men’s 3000 m Super Final
Vladislav Bykanov (ISR) took a full lap on the rest of the 8-skater pack, to claim the win in the men’s 3000 m super final. With the overall championship title clinched, the race was made interesting with three skaters in contention for the remaining two overall classification podium places: Russian teammates Victor An and Semen Elistratov, and crowd favorite Daan Breeuwsma (NED). At the end of the 27-lap race, An crossed the line in second place, while his teammate Elistratov was third. This result meant that both skaters clinched second and third place, respectively, in the overall championship classification. Sjinkie Knegt (NED) concluded his individual race weekend with a fourth place finish in the super final.
Russia dominates both relay events
Russia finished first in the Ladies 3000 m Relay final, crossing the line ahead of the Netherlands. Hungary earned the bronze medal spot on the last lap, finishing ahead of Italy. In the Men’s 5000 m Relay final, Russia defended its European championship title with a first place finish. Hungary passed the Netherlands with less than three laps to go, to finish in the second place while the Netherlands crossed the line in third place.
The next ISU Short Track Speed Skating event is the ISU World Cup 2014/15 series as it resumes in Dresden, Germany from February



Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union