Rampaging Vikings, mythical dragons, feisty birds: new Short Track identities are a hit among athletes
Among the new innovations for the Short Track World Tour are powerful new team identities – including completely redesigned racing suits with different colours and mascots. They’re dynamic, bold, and help capture the national symbols and competitive spirit of each country. But what do the athletes think of the outfits they helped create and inspire? Time to find out…

Courtney Sarault, Canadian Ice Maples: “Greatness and performance is kind of breed into us”
Eight- time world championship medallist Courtney Sarault may not have got the “tiger or bear” she was “kind of hoping for” as the Canadian team symbol, but she has to concede that the Ice Maples is an apt name. “It really represents our country,” she laughs. “If it’s between regular sugar or Maple syrup every Canadian is going to take the Maple syrup, to put in their coffee or somewhere that maybe Maple syrup shouldn’t be for most people.” As befits a member of the leading team in the race for the inaugural ISU Team Crystal Globe, racing with the Maple on her chest means so much to Sarault;  “It’s such an honour.”

Choi Minjeong, Korean White Tigers: “We want the Team Crystal Globe.”
The three-time Olympic champion Choi Minjeong is adamant she and her peers are going to do everything they can to try and claim the inaugural ISU Team Crystal Globe, despite the fact that they will miss one of the World Tour stops to compete at the Asian Winter Games. The Korean White Tiger they wear on their suits might just help them complete this challenging mission. “It is very brave and passionate and wise and powerful and it gives you extra power when you are skating,” Choi said. “In history it’s a very important animal for us Koreans.”

Liu Shaoang, Chinese Loongs: “It’s been a mythical animal for centuries.”
Whatever you do, do not call it a dragon. At least not a classical, kids-type of dragon. That is the message coming from double Olympic champion Liu Shaoang as he admires the regal-looking creature on his chest. “We don’t call it a dragon,” he confirms. “It’s a different kind of breed. The Chinese dragon doesn’t have wings. We have a very long history with it. We have it everywhere so it’s always reminding us to always do our best on the ice.”

Efe Toprak Eroglu, Turkish Anatolian Pars: “You like it? Good. They are very strong, these Turkish tigers.”
At the beginning of 2024 the 17-year-old Efe Toprak Eroglu was competing at the Youth Olympic Games in Gangwon. Now he is duelling with the best Short Track skaters in the world, with a snarling Turkish tiger on his chest. Life is good. “These are very famous these animals, they are my favourite animals,” Eroglu says. “And this team, they are my friends. My friends and then there is Furkan (Akar, the 2023 1000m European Championship bronze medallist). He is like the father. He is No.1 and he’s my little coach.”

Thanutchaya Chatthaisong, Thai Elephants: “Elephants, they are Kings of the forest.”
Burgeoning team Thailand are delighted to have a proud elephant as their symbol, after all, as Thanutchaya Chatthaisong says, “Thailand means elephants.” The female skater laughs at the concept, aware that “when foreigners come to Thailand they want to see Elephants”. A young team, the Thai Elephants “support each other and are growing together”, according to Chatthaisong. Crucially, she thinks “it will help to have the elephant on our suit”.

Warre Noiron, Belgian Ice Bears: “One of the best suits in the field I think.”
Warre Noiron concedes that polar bears might not immediately spring to mind when thinking of Belgium, but he doesn’t mind a jot. Not only does the roaring face of the much-loved creature make it “one of the best suits” but it’s also an animal every kid knows. “If I think about documentaries I used to look at when I was younger, Polar bears were always in it,” Noiron says with a smile, before explaining just what it is like to team-up with superstar siblings Hanne and Stijn Desmet: “Last year I used to look at them on the live stream getting medals, it’s really cool.”

Andrew Heo, USA Eagles: “The way I see it is making it more like the NBA or the NFL.”
A lifelong fan of NFL side the Philadelphia Eagles, Andrew Heo is flying high with Team USA’s new identity. “It’s cool,” says the Philly native. “It’s a fun way to make it more popping to the audience. It’s cool and it’s easy for fans to know who it is without looking at the screen.” Regular podium places in the mixed relay are helping build team spirit too. “It’s nice to see that we’re able to get up there and compete with the best teams,” he adds. “Hopefully the boys, we can get up there too.”

Betty Moeske, German Wolves: “Wolves are scary, so maybe we can bring that to the ice”
Wolves are a key part of German folklore – menacing creatures roaming the woods of Bavaria. Now they’re hoping to be leaders of the pack on the ice (and scare the opposition). “It’s a really good design, and I like hearing the announcers call us the German Wolves,” says Betty Moeske. “We had freedom to design the suit and I prefer it to our old one. Germany is known for its wolves, in the forests of the south. I saw one once, and it was definitely scary. Hopefully we can channel that on the ice. It’s a great idea, I really hope it helps get us more fans.”

Brendan Corey, Australian Racing Roos: “You don’t want to mess with a Kangaroo.”
Brendan Corey may have been skating for Australia for three seasons before this one but doing it this time round with a Kangaroo on his chest, and indeed his boots, is a whole other sensation. “It’s special as a symbol, they are out national animal,” the 27-year-old says. “They are explosive, powerful creatures, all the things you need as a skater”. Add on the fact that the revamped World Tour means more meaningful skating for all and Corey is a happy Roo. “I love it, skating is my favourite thing to do.”

Zdenek Sejpal, Czechia Ice Spiders: “I’m scared of spiders but it’s really cool”
There’s just one problem with being a Czechia Ice Spider, according to team member Zdenek Sejpal. “I am arachnophobic,” he says with a laugh. “If I saw a spider in my house, I would run away – even if it is a small one.” His new racing suit, and the Spiderman vibe, is something different, however. “We came up with the spider and I’m happy with it,” he says. “I feel really good in the suit, and I think it’s great for the sport, the team ideas. It’s really cool and the Spiderman thing is a lot of fun, of course I like the movie.” Can it help them weave a web of wonder this season, though?
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union