The 2018/19 Short Track Speed Skating season was nothing short of a classic. It featured the emergence of brilliant skating talent, the crowing of new champions, the smashing of World Records, fresh technology that made racing fairer, a new event – and the usual heady blend of overtaking, crashes, photo-finishes and last-second thrills that make the sport so exhilarating to take part in and watch.
There’s no doubt who should be anointed as 2018/19’s ‘MVP’.Suzanne Schultingof the Netherlands came into the season with an Olympic gold medal from PyeongChang 2018 bolstering her confidence, and a steely determination to add the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championship title to her roll of honors.

Suzanne Schulting (NED) at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
She did so in style. In Sofia, Bulgaria, Schulting became only the second European winner of the Ladies’ Overall ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championship title in its 44-year history, following Great Britain’sElise Christie, who won in 2017, and overcoming a disappointing 1500m race to win the 1000m and 3000m Super Final, pippingChoi Min Jeong(KOR) to the gold medal in both.
This achievement came off the back of an ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating season over which she has also ruled supreme. Schulting added a huge amount of power to her game after a summer of extremely hard graft, improved her start, and seemed mentally unshakeable as she became overall 1000m and 1500m World Cup champion. Remarkably, she didn’t lose a single 1000m final that she lined up in.
Stay healthy, and the 21-year-old will be tough to beat over the next couple of seasons – and as the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games come into focus.

Choi Min Jeong (KOR) at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Choi will have something to say about that, however. The Republic of Korean athlete can already be considered one of Short Track’s greats, having won an Olympic gold medal in the 1500m and 3000m Relay at PyeongChang 2018, and three Overall ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in the past five years. Injury hampered her progress this term, but she still looked lethal on her day.

Natalia Maliszewska (POL) at the World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
In the 500m, there was also a two-way battle for supremacy, withNatalia Maliszewska(POL) andMartina Valcepina(ITA) fighting it out in the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating – although the brilliantLara van Ruijvenof the Netherlands vanquished both to become 500m World Champion in Sofia.

Kim Ji Yoo (KOR) at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Kim Ji Yooof Rep. Korea also came into form late-on, winning the 1500m in Dresden, while a group of excellent skaters, includingSofia Prosvirnova(RUS),Alyson Charles(CAN) andKim Boutin(CAN), all improved radically this season.

Elise Christie (GBR) at the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Also heartening was the re-emergence of Christie, who endured difficult Olympic Games. After taking six months out from training, the 29-year-old Scot regained sharpness towards the end of the term – and has now vowed to come back for her World title over the next couple of seasons. With young racers such asMaame Biney(USA) andPetra Jaszapati(HUN) also gaining ground, Ladies’ Short Track Speed Skating couldn’t be in better health.

Team Korea at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
The Men’s season was also compelling – but for different reasons, as the plaudits were largely shared and fought over by just one team: the Republic of Korea. While their squad are impeccable teammates that often combine to win Relay golds, they were happy to indulge in some fierce internal squabbles for the individual prizes.

Lim Hyo Jun (KOR) at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
It wasLim Hyo Junwho eventually emerged as the season’s star. Lim had hit a late vein of form in the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating season, doing enough to become the overall 500m Champion. And he took that speed into the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships, where he was proclaimed Overall winner after getting gold in the 1000m, 1500m and 3000m.

Hwang Dae Heon (KOR) at the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
It could all have been so different for his compatriotHwang Dae Heon, however. Hwang was penalized twice from gold medal-winning positions in Sofia: had it not been for his sheer competitive instinct, he might now well be World Champion himself.

Park Ji Won (KOR) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (GER) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
But Hwang did have a great year overall – looking competitive over every distance – while his other teammates also excelled.Park Ji Wonwas overall 1000m ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating winner, withHong Kyung Hwanplacing second.Lee June Seoalso had a fine season.

Kim Gun Woo (KOR) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (ITA) 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
Perhaps the most thrilling new skater to emerge in 2018/19?Kim Gun Woo. The explosive youngster looked unbeatable in the latter part of the season over 1500m, but then missed out on the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships.
The fact that Korea could exclude one of their key stars and still clean up is reflective of their incredible strength in depth: but stay out of trouble and Kim looks like a future star.

Sjinki Knegt (NED) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (USA) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Elsewhere, injury and absence hobbled the chances of Korea’s key rivals. A shocking pair of accidents ended the season ofSjinkie Knegt(NED), whileShaoang Liu(HUN) saw an excellent season cut short because of a hand injury. Everyone wishes them the best of recoveries for 2019/20.

Team Hungary at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (CAN) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Liu, along with brotherShaolin Sandorand their Hungary teammates, did however break the Men’s 5000m Relay World Record this season – a fine achievement to add to their Olympic Relay gold.

Wu Dajing (CHN) at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (USA) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Wu Dajing(CHN), as usual, looked superb over 500m, but also missed half the season and couldn’t quite reproduce his early form at the World Championships.Kazuki Yoshinaga(JPN),Steven Dubois(CAN) andSamuel Girard(CAN) all made good progress this year, too.

Mixed Gender Relay at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating (KAZ) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
Two new innovations added fun and fairness to proceedings. The Mixed Relay was a huge hit for both genders, and helped foster true togetherness among the teams.

ISU Replay Room 2019©International Skating Union (ISU)
The new video replay system, meanwhile, ironed out some of Short Track Speed Skating’s problems in terms of communicating penalties. A clear review system and dedicated video referee, whose findings were reproduced on the big screen, meant that athletes and fans alike could see exactly why decisions had been made.
It all added up to make one of Short Track Speed Skating’s most successful seasons yet.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union