#ShortTrackSkating


Korea, Canada and Netherlands lead field at theNederlandse Loterij ISU World Short Track Championships 2024
The Nederlandse Loterij ISU World Short Track Championships 2024takes place in Rotterdam (NED) from March 15-17, with competitors from the Republic of Korea, Canada and Netherlands among the favourites for the coveted medals.
Korea’s athletes in particular come to Rotterdam in sparkling form:Kim Gilli (KOR)andPark Ji Won (KOR)won the women’s and men’s ISU Crystal Globes respectively, being crowned the best skaters of 2023/24.

Park Ji Won (KOR) and Kim Gilli (KOR) pose with the Crystal Globes during the World Cup in Gdansk (POL). @ISU
The duo will want to cap a superb winter with the most prized titles of all – but they will face stiff competition.
Medals will be awarded in the 500m, 1000m and 1500m individual distances for both genders, a 3000m Women’s Relay, 5000m Men’s Relay, and 2000m Mixed Relay.

New ‘Big Four’ face off against legends
2023/24 has seen a new order emerge in women’s Short Track, with a quartet of athletes in charge:Kim Gilli (KOR),Kristen Santos -Griswold(USA),Xandra Velzeboer(NED) andHanne Desmet(BEL).
Kim, still just 19, is a sporting phenomenon. She led the rankings, scoring heavily in the 1000m and 1500m in particular, and has a technique and racecraft that defy her years. Twin that with the explosive speed and fearlessness of youth, and she is already extremely difficult to beat.

Kim Gilli (KOR) celebrates during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Seoul (KOR). @ISU
Many can foresee a career as successful as her idol and teammate, Choi Min Jeon (KOR), who is currently having a break from the sport. Gilli hasn’t won an ISU World Championship medal yet, and it’s next on her to-to list.
Santos-Griswold pushed Kim all the way in the fight for this season’s Crystal Globe. Able to win across all three distances, the American has added a new mental robustness to her undoubted athletic talent. She looks certain to get in the mix for her first World Championship podium.

Kristen Santos Griswold (USA) competes during the World Cup in Gdansk (POL). @ISU
Velzeboer has already got an enviable World Championships record. The fastest woman on ice holds the 500m world record, and scooped gold in both that distance and the 1000m at this event last year, as well as the 500m in 2022. She will be questing for a speed hat trick here – and on home ice, will be fully confident.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) pictured during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Seoul (KOR). @ISU
Like Kim and Santos-Griswold, Desmet has matured this term. The Belgian has been a threat in every 1000m and 1500m she has lined up in, and has trademarked a well-timed late passing move.
While these four look favourites,Selma Poutsma(NED) will doubtless push Velzeboer every inch of the way in the 500m – they’re been duelling furiously all season over that distance, and a trio of veterans also lie in wait.
Suzanne Schulting(NED) is the finest racer of her generation, but after taking part of the season off, it remains to be seen whether she can peak here and add to the ten World Championship gold medals she already has in her collection. Recent outings in Gdansk and Dresden suggest it would be unwise to place a bet against her.

Suzanne Schulting (NED) competes during the World Cup in Gdansk (POL). @ISU
Also returning from a well-earned break is Canadian legendKim Boutin (CAN); once again, her pedigree is not in doubt, but her race-readiness is harder to gauge.
Most intriguing of all is the appearance ofArianna Fontana(ITA). The Italian, a Beijing 2022 and PyeongChang 2018 gold medallist in the 500m, hasn’t raced an ISU World Cup all season. But like Schulting and Boutin, her vast experience could put her straight back at the top table.

Arianna Fontana (ITA) competes during the 2022 Beijing Olympic Winter Games in Beijing (CHN). ©GettyImages
Elsewhere,Suk Hee Shim(KOR) andCourtney Sarault(CAN) are cultured racers who’ve had somewhat quiet seasons, whileCorinne Stoddard(USA) is ever improving.

Koreans and Canadians continue men’s duel
Of the top seven rankings of the men’s Crystal Globe points list this season, three athletes were Korean and four Canadian – and it seems highly likely these racers will lead the way in Rotterdam.
Head of the pack is Park (KOR), who has now triumphed in two ISU Crystal Globes in a row, reinforcing his status as the world’s top Short Tracker.
The 1000m and 1500m are his specialisms, and the Seoul ace won both distances on home ice at the 2023 ISU World Championships. A naturally confident character whose mental game matches his physical prowess, he will line up as favourite again.

Park Ji Won (KOR) celebratesduring the World Cup in Gdansk (POL). @ISU
Steven Dubois(CAN) is the man most likely to topple him. The Canadian pushed Park to the very last day in the fight for the ISU Crystal Globe, and his high-risk, high-reward strategy is designed for weekends like this.
Dubois hasn’t won a World Championships gold yet: he will be dangerous in every distance – but especially the 500m.

Steven Dubois (CAN) competes during the ISU Four Continents Short Track Championships in Laval (CAN). @ISU
Next in the pecking order this term have beenWilliam Dandjinou (CAN)andKim Gun Woo(KOR). The tall Canadian finally started to live up to his boundless potential in 2023/24, while Kim has come back to the Korean team after several seasons in the wilderness with fire in his belly. They’re not as consistent as their teammates, but on the right day, both are close to unbeatable.

William Dandjinou (CAN) competesduring the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Montreal (CAN). @ISU
Elsewhere,Jordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN) andFelix Roussel(CAN) have both had flashes of brilliance this winter.
Beyond those two nations, plenty of eyes will be onPietro Sighel(ITA). The reigning 500m World Champion recently completed a clean sweep of the medals at the ISU European Championships, and is a man for the big occasion.
Also looming isHwang Dae Heon(KOR), who had a muted start to 2023/24 and then missed the World Cup events in Germany and Poland – but who has Olympic gold medallist pedigree and has twice been 500m World Champion.

Hwang Dae Heon (KOR) competes during the World Cup in Debrecen (HUN). @ISU
The local assault will be led byJens van ‘t Wout(NED),Teun Boer Teun Boer(NED) andItzhak De Laat(NED), while bothStijn Desmet(BEL) andNiall Treacy(GBR) have shown form on a European level that they will hope to carry onto the biggest stage of all.
In the relays, a near-unbeatable Netherlands unit will be strong favourites in the women’s event, while Canada and Korea will again battle in the men’s; Netherlands, China and Korea will start as favourites in the mixed event.

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Friday, Saturday and Sunday ISU World Short Track Championships sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#WorldShortTrack.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union