#ShortTrackSkating

A general view of the rink at the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Dresden (GER). @ISU
The fifth instalment of the 2023/24 ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating takes place at the JOYNET Arena, Dresden, Germany from February 9-11.This meeting, along with the final ISU World Cup in Gdansk the following weekend, will stage the crucial races in the battle for this season’s Crystal Globe trophies, presented by Dunamu.

A general view of the rink at the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Dresden (GER). @ISU
Both the women’s and men’s competitions look like a four-person race to the title.
Gilli, Santos-Griswold, Velzeboer and Desmet battle for crown
After last season’s Crystal Globe winner,Suzanne Schulting (NED), did not compete in the North American and Asia races, a new overall champion will be crowned this time around – and four athletes have dominated on the oval this season.
Leading the pack isKim Gilli(KOR), who has been top point-scorer at three of the four World Cups so far. The racer, who is still just 19, is seen in her homeland as the most exciting Korean Short Track Skater sinceChoi Min Jeong(KOR) – who is on a season-long sabbatical. Kim is lightning fast, but also has a tactical mastery and racecraft that belies her years. She can win through raw power or via making a move at the right time and will be laser-focused on winning the first-ever female Crystal Globe for the Republic of Korea.
Kim Gilli (KOR) celebrates during the ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 in Seoul (KOR). @ISU
Kristen Santos-Griswold(USA) has come of age this season. Always quick, she’s got the mental side of her game working of late and was especially impressive at the ISU Four Continents Championship in Laval, Canada, where she swept all three individual golds. The confident American lies in second place in the standings.

Kristen Santos Griswold (USA) celebrates at the ISU World Cup 2023 in Beijing (CHN). @ISU
Xandra Velzeboer(NED) sits in third, 110 points behind Santos-Griswold, and will require a dominant weekend to put herself in contention for the title. Luckily, that’s something she is more than capable of. Velzeboer is the reigning 500m and 1000m World Champion; boss those distances during the run-in and she can grab the Globe.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) and Selma Poutsma (NED) celebrates during the ISU World Cup 2023 in Montreal (CAN) @ISU
Hanne Desmet(BEL) meanwhile has also progressed hugely this term. An absolute master of making late passes in the 1000m and 1500m especially, she is also capable of cleaning up on a weekend where she’s feeling on form. But she needs to get points on the board in Dresden to stay in contention.

Hanne Desmet (BEL) competes during the ISU European Championships 2024 in Gdansk (POL). @ISU
Who else might get ahead of these four brilliant racers? In the sprint,Selma Poutsma(NED) is trading blows with her teammate Velzeboer this season, whileCorinne Stoddard(USA) andSeo Whimin(KOR) have also had their moments.Courtney Sarault(CAN) is perhaps too far off the pace to repeat last season’s top three finish, but travels to Germany with a point to prove.
The X factor for this weekend? Schulting is back. The Netherlands great is easing herself back into racing after a long break, and it will be fascinating to see whether she comes back at full speed or takes a while to settle. Also returning from a break isKim Boutin(CAN) – lethal at her best but having not raced much this year. It’ll certainly be interesting.

Suzanne Schulting (NED) competes during the KB Financial Group ISU World Short Track Championships 2023 in Seoul (KOR). @ISU
Canada and Republic of Korea continue season-long dual for title
Will the men’s Crystal Globe be travelling back to Seoul this spring, or is it heading to Canada?
It’s impossible to call. Last year,Park Ji Won(KOR) ran away with the title. The Korean was ruthless across all distances and brimming with confidence. The year, he has found it much harder, thanks to three ever-improving competitors. But the reigning champion is still perhaps favourite to take the title again. He is a remarkable natural athlete but has twinned that with fierce determination and technical ability, across all three distances.

Park Ji Won (KOR) competes during the ISU Four Continents Championships 2023 in Laval (CAN) @ISU
Steven Dubois(CAN) looks like the man most likely to beat him. The Canadian rocket is currently a mere two points ahead in the standings and is looking in the best shape of his life. Diminutive but powerful, he’s shown a willingness to take risks in order to pick up wins –something he’s training himself to do ahead of the Milan-Cortina 2026 Olympic Winter Games. Hot favourite in the 500m, if he can also pick up points in the longer distances, Dubois will take some beating.

Steven Dubois (CAN) competes during the ISU Four Continents Championships in Laval (CAN). @ISU
William Dandjinou(CAN) has been the revelation of the season. Always on the fringes of a talent-packed Canada team, the tall, powerful racer has finally unleashed his potential in 2023-24. Capable of picking up gold across all three distances, his newfound confidence has produced a run of performances that have left him just a handful of points behind the front two.

William Dandjinou (CAN) celebrates during the ISU World Cup in Seoul (KOR). @ISU 2023
Short Track fans have long known about the capabilities ofKim Gun Woo(KOR), meanwhile, but many thought he would never recapture his former glories – and he spent several years out of the squad, which is notoriously difficult to get into. But Kim has had a spectacular return to form, and could make a charge for the top.

Kim Gun Woo (KOR) ISU World Cup Short Track 2023 Montreal (CAN). ISU 1753036634
There is plenty of other talent around, too.Shaoang Liu(CHN) andShaolin Sandor Liu(CHN) do not travel to Dresden, butPietro Sighel(ITA) arrives in cracking form – he swept the gold medals at the recent European Championships in Gdansk, whileJordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN),Jens van ‘t Wout(NED), andHwang Deoheon(KOR) are all in the running, too.
All in all, it should – as always – make for a hard-fought and exciting weekend of racing.
The men and women will race over 500m, 1000m and 1500m, and there will be three relays: 3000m women, 5000m men and 2000m mixed team.
For full results, entry lists and further information about the 2023/24 ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating, please visit webpagehere.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union