#ShortTrackSkating
Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) takes top spot in the Women's 500m in Beijing, China © ISU

On a day in which the home team won five ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating medals in front of Beijing’s noisy, packed-out Capital Indoor Stadium,Kristen Santos-Griswold(USA) still managed to steal the headlines.
Less than two years ago the USA skater – then a distance specialist – finished an agonising fourth in the 1000m at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games, before missing out on a place in the final of the 1500m.
But all those disappointments were put to bed, with the 29-year-old coming out firing on the ice to grab a first 500m World Cup title. The fact she did it by bursting past two Chinese skaters in the final lap made it all the sweeter.



It is a first ever 500m World Cup title for Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) in Beijing, China © ISU

“Being here again and having fun out there was so important to me,” Santos-Griswold said, the sparkle on her gold medal just about matching her smile. “That (Beijing 2022 heartache) was part of the discussion to whether I continued skating or not. Now it feels really good.

“The 500m isn’t typically my go-to race but I’ve been working really hard on being an all-round skater. So, I’m definitely moving in the right direction,” she added before revealing that it was the agony she felt in 2022 that prompted her to finally master the sprint.

“My ultimate goal is to be at the next Winter Olympics and competing in every single distance and be a medal contender in every single distance – the best opportunity with the most I can race.”

Medals galore for home team
While Santos-Griswold could not stop smiling, it was more of a rueful grin forFan Kexin(CHN). The Chinese athlete is a five-time 500m world champion but with the last of those titles having come more than six years ago, the 30-year-old could not quite find enough to hold off the USA skater.
Silver for the veteran was backed up by bronze for her teenage compatriotWang Ye(CHN).


Fan Kexin (CHN) and Wang Ye (CHN) take silver and bronze in front of a packed home crowd in Beijing, China © ISU

A first World Cup podium finish for the fast-rising 18-year-old Wang was matched by a maiden silver medal for teammateGong Li(CHN) in the 1500m.With all 10,000-plus tickets having sold out for the two days of World Cup finals in just minutes, Gong knew exactly who she wanted to thank for her breakthrough triumph.
“They (the crowd) gave me the strength. I think they kind of pushed me to go all out for the medal,” Gong said, before acknowledging that new coach Zhang Jing (CHN) should also take a heap of credit.

“She has tried so hard to help all the athletes. Training is hard but technically we are so well prepared.”


Gong Li (CHN) (C) chases Kim Gilli (KOR) in the 1500m in Beijing, China © ISU

Kim continues to reign supreme
Even the magic touch of Zhang is not yet enough to stop the extraordinaryKim Gilli(KOR). The Korean skater’s record in her four 1500m World Cup races this season now reads: two wins and two second place finishes.
Despite Gong’s efforts and those of delighted former sprint specialistXandra Velzeboer(NED), no one could touch the 19-year-old as she seemed to float to victory once more.
“No, it’s not easy,” Kim insisted with a laugh. “I have to train hard always. This is my favourite distance though. This medal is cool, it’s very big and heavy.”



Kim Gilli (KOR) adds to her World Cup medal tally in Beijing, China © ISU

While Kim will no doubt have to start to find somewhere new to store her distance medals, it is a new problem for 500m world champion and world record holder Velzeboer.
“I felt last year already that I became stronger, I had more endurance in me. I just didn’t really get results and I didn’t skate it (the 1500m) that often. It was definitely a goal this year to show that I have improved,” she said.



Gong Li (CHN) (L) and Xandra Velzeboer (NED) (R) join Kim Gilli (KOR) on the podium in Beijing, China © ISU
Dutch deny China on mixed relay
Active in just about every race, Velzeboer’s busy day ended with her playing a key role in the last final. After a diet of silvers and the odd bronze, the crowd were desperate for the China mixed relay team to feed them a gold.
But it was not to be with new favouriteLin Xiaojununable to overhaul the orange-and-blue clad Dutch on the line.
“It was extra cool that China was also in the final, everyone was making extra noise,” Velzeboer said. “Skating here is really awesome but winning is extra awesome.”
She and the rest of the women’s best will get a chance to do it all again on Sunday, with the World Cup session starting at 14:02 local time.


For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union