#ShortTrackSkating

Courtney Sarault (CAN) pictured during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Almaty (KAZ) @ISU
Courtney Sarault(CAN) has been firing on all cylinders this ISU Short Track Speed Skating season, highlighted by a second place overall in the World Cup standings, behind only the all-conqueringSuzanne Schulting(NED).
At this weekend’s KB Financial Group ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Seoul, Korea, Sarault will look to translate her excellent form into more glory.
I’m excited for the World Championships. That’s when I’m supposed to be at my peak. I think there’s going to be a lot of battling. It’s going to be a really fun competition.
Une publication partagée par Courtney Sarault (@courtsarault)
The 22-year-old missed out on the inaugural Crystal Globe trophy – the ISU’s new prize to coronate the best overall male and female racers on the World Cup circuit – but knows plenty more prestigious titles are still up for grabs at the Mokdong Ice Rink.
The world stage
It’s been a crazy season. Taking so much time off with Covid and kind of getting back in the regular competition (after the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games) has been a bit hard on my body.
Courtney Sarault (CAN) streches during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Almaty(KAZ) @ISU
But I’m very excited to skate a few more events on the world stage and see what I can do. I feel pretty strong and I find I’ve had a good season, but I’d like to see if maybe I’ve a little bit more to give.
The 2021 World Championship overall silver medalist will face fierce competition from local legendChoi Min Jeong(KOR) and Schulting, who have both been a major force in the Women’s field over recent years, winning six of the last seven World Championship overall titles.

Kim Gilli (KOR), Courtney Sarault (CAN) and Suzanne Schulting (NED) pose during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Dordrecht (NED) @ISU
Choi, the queen of Korean Short Track, is looking to peak on home ice after a somewhat quiet post-Olympic season, while Schulting bowed out of the 2022/23 World Cup campaign in front of a home crowd in Dordrecht, Netherlands as the undeniable No.1 to clinch the Crystal Globe.
Battling for glory
Sarault knows the field is incredibly competitive, but the Canadian racer feels ready for the challenge.
I love battling. That’s why I do this sport. It’s part of the game. I’ll be there for it and we’ll see who comes out on top.
Courtney Sarault (CAN) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Dordrecht (NED) @ISU
I think my top form is coming. I don’t know if it’s really there yet but it’s going to come. I really have to take care of my body and my preparation. If I nail that, I’m going to do good at the competition.
Sarault claimed her first Senior individual World Cup gold by winning the 1000m at the third meet of the season in Almaty, Kazakhstan, has since bagged another two – and now she wants more.
I always knew I could challenge for gold but I never had the perfect race to get myself in that spot. This year I’m more experienced with racing and I’m making better decisions in my races.
Courtney Sarault (CAN) competes during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montreal (CAN) @ISU
I was always wondering if I could do it and when it happened it was really like a relief because I was like, ‘Am I always going to get silver or bronze?
Finally getting that gold medal really boosted my confidence and showed how I’d have to skate a race in order to reach the top step of the podium. There’s more to come, for sure.
Grateful for the support
Sarault praises her support system. She grew up in an athletic family – her father was a National Hockey League player – but she admits she never tells “anyone to watch” her races.
Une publication partagée par NALZA® (@nalza.us)
I get nervous when people watch me. It makes me feel stressed. If they want to watch, they can, but I’m not going to go out of my way to tell anyone.
It takes energy sometimes as well, because you don’t want to be mean and not answer messages. I’ve a lot of friends that are texting me after my races, so I want to make sure I answer them all.
That can all be a bit overwhelming, but everyone is just really proud of me. And I’m very grateful to receive so much support. I want to show them what I can do.
Where to watch
Viewers can watch the KB Financial Group ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to Watch webpagehere.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union