#ShortTrackSkating
Steven Dubois (CAN) and Jordan Pierre-Gilles (CAN) celebrate a Canadian 1-2 in the 500m(2) in Beijing, China  © ISU
A third men’s sprint crown in a row and another relay win in Beijing capped a golden finale for Canada at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating event on Sunday. But it was not all about the North Americans with the Capital Indoor Stadium crowd – again a 10,000-plus sell-out – finally getting what they really wanted withLiu Shaoangtaking the 1000m title for China.
While happy to share the local limelight with the Olympic 1000m champion Liu, there is no doubt the global headlines belonged toJordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN). For the second day in succession the 25-year-old claimed 500m gold in highly dramatic circumstances, before going on to add another Beijing relay title to his bulging collection.



Jordan Pierre-Gilles with his 500m gold medal in Beijing, China © ISU
“It is starting to become one of my favourite places to skate,” Pierre-Gilles said with an unsurprisingly large grin. “Amazing day. First time I’ve had a day like that. Honestly, the energy in this place.”
The 500m final delivered a classic Short Track race packed full of incident, skill and not a little heartache.Lin Xiaojun(CHN) was at the centre of the latter, the crowd favourite pulling up with a muscle injury half-way through. That left the experiencedSteven Dubois(CAN) seemingly in control. But in the final corner the three-time Olympic medallist slipped and Pierre-Gilles flew through.


Steven Dubois and Jordan Pierre-Gilles (CAN) lead Sun Long (CHN) and Stijn Desmet (BEL) in the 500m(2) in Beijing, China © ISU

“It was a crazy finish,” said Pierre-Gilles who now has won the past three 500m World Cup finals, having never achieved any sort of World Cup title.
A phlegmatic Dubois could only congratulate his on-fire countryman.
“We kept the medals in Canada so it doesn’t really matter. I knew he was there. I came to the last corner and I was fine, hit a crack and my right (skate) just kept going,” Dubois said. “Back-to-back-to-back, that’s pretty impressive.”


Sun Long (CHN) celebrates his bronze medal in front of a packed home crowd in Beijing, China © ISU

Another Beijing relay gold for Canada
The duo quickly dusted themselves down and then teamed up to win a relay that was almost as dramatic. Canada, China, Republic of Korea and Netherlands lined up for the heaviest of heavyweight contests.
Roared on by the crowd, China led for much of the race with Korea seemingly the closest challengers. But just as it looked like the home team would prevail, a slip fromLiu Shaolin(CHN) opened the door. Canada, in the shape of red-hot young skaterWilliam Dandjinou, barged through to add another Capital Indoor Stadium memory to their collection.



Canada Men's Relay team in Beijing, China © ISU

“To go through ups and downs through the relay and still win at the same place we won (Beijing 2022 Olympic gold) two years ago is just something else,” said Dubois before turning his attention to youngster Dandjinou.
“He has infinite legs as we say. It’s pretty insane.”
Korea took silver, with China ending up with bronze.
“In this final, each of the four could have won. It’s Short Track,” Liu Shaoang said.

Gold at last for the home team
Thankfully for Liu, and indeed the crowd, he had more luck in the 1000m. The rapid Dandjinou crossed the line first, appearing to have sewn up his second World Cup win in a matter of weeks after a dominant display. But Liu knew better, having anticipated a penalty for the Canadian.


Park Ji Won (KOR), Liu Shaoang (CHN) and Jang Sungwoo (KOR) with their 1000m medals in Beijing, China © ISU

“From behind it was obvious,” Liu said of Dandjinou’s mid-race clash with Dutch skaterJens van ‘T Wout. “So, I didn’t really try to push that much. I tried to avoid any incident. I tried to stay calm and focus on the guy who was behind me.”
The guy behind him was men’s 1000m world championPark Ji Won(KOR) and Liu just managed to hold him off to take China’s first gold of the weekend. CompatriotJang Sungwoo(KOR) took third.
“It’s OK, I am not happy, not sad, just so-so,” said Park who is yet to regain the dominance he showed last season. Although he thinks he knows why.
“Many people have been studying me, working out how to beat me. I was No.1 and everyone is out to beat me,” the 2022-23 Crystal Globe winner added.
The Korean will have a chance to get his own back on home soil soon, with the next World Cup taking place in Seoul 15-17 December. Tune in, it should be a Christmas cracker.

For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union