
#ShortTrackSkating

A determined Steven Dubois (CAN) in the Men's 1000m in Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

Steven Dubois(CAN) got his ‘risk-reward’ tactics spot on on the opening day of the ISU World Cup in Seoul to grab the lead in Short Track Speed Skating’s overall season-standings. ButPark Ji Won(KOR) did not let him get too far in front, delighting the deafening home crowd by claiming victory in the men’s 1500m.
Dubois has been ‘Mr Consistent’ on tour since winning gold, silver and bronze at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games. But a succession of second and third-place World Cup finishes this season had left him frustrated. Until he came out on top of a nail-biting 1000m final in the Korean capital.
Racing alongside teammatePascal Dion, the Canadians appeared to have everything under control. But with less than two laps to goHwang Daeheon(KOR) sent the crowd wild. First the Olympic 1500m champion swept past Dion and then slipped up the inside of the final corner and took it to Dubois right on the line.
“I knew he was making a pass because I heard the crowd and then I saw on the video but I thought he was so far (back), so I came out of the corner and I was like I’m fine and then I saw him the last moment and we kind of hit each other and I fell. At the line I knew I had him but he gave me a heart attack,” said Dubois who endured the agony of being pipped for gold on the inside just a week ago in the 500m in Beijing.

A dramatic finish for Steven Dubois (CAN) and Hwang Daeheon (KOR)in Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

But this time the photo-finish went the way of the bushy-bearded 26-year-old, with compatriot Dion taking the bronze.
“I was waiting for that gold to happen,” he said with a smile. “I have been so aggressive so I have been taking more risks and it wasn’t paying off but it’s paid off today.”
The 100 points he took for winning gold was enough to propel him past long-time Crystal Globe race leader,Kim Gun Woo(KOR). The Korean fell in the semi-finals but will have a chance to hit back on Sunday. Not that Dubois is keen to let him.
“It (the Crystal Globe standings) was something I calculated before. Definitely not on my mind when I was racing but I kind of wanted to finish the first two-thirds of the season in front,” he said.
Park pips Dandjinou to end mini-drought
The men’s 1500m was another Canada versus Korea affair, but this time the locals got what they wanted.
It may have been the first final of the day, but the crowd were in excellent voice, roaring their approval as Park and youngsterJang Sungwoo(KOR) took early control. With four laps left,William Dandjinou(CAN) started pumping his long levers and jumped ahead of Jang but even the in-form Canadian did not have quite enough to catch last season’s undisputed No.1.
Victory in front of delighted home fans for Park Ji Won in Seoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

By most people’s standards, Park has had a mighty fine season to date, including a 1500m win at the opening World Cup meet in Montreal. But the Korean has not been happy.
“I hadn’t had a gold medal for what felt like a long time, I had the hunger today,” he said. “That was very special for me.”
Park now sits just 15 points behind Dubois, having also leap-frogged Kim in the table. The man in fourth place, Dandjinou cannot stop picking up medals, even if he was utterly exhausted by the process.
“It was fun, tiring. After last week, the high of emotions and going back-to-back, it is new for me. So, not the same legs but I am happy,” Dandjinou said, adding, “The legs don’t matter at this point. It’s just how much you want that medal. My legs might not be as good as last week, but my heart is, my head is.”

William Dandjinou (CAN), Park Ji Won (KOR) and Felix Roussel (CAN) on the podium inSeoul, Republic of Korea © ISU

Dandjinou may have been a little surprised at who joined him on the podium. The skater himself certainly was.
“I never expected to be on the podium in the 1500m at the international level,”Felix Roussel(CAN) laughed after winning bronze. “I just proved to myself I can do anything. Now I have a (World Cup) medal in 1000m, 500m and 1500m so I think what my coaches told me for so long that I can be good in every distance has proved it’s point. Finally, I can’t have any excuse any more in the 1500m.”
With the men’s 500m and 1500m(2) titles up for grabs on Sunday, as well as the men’s 5000m relay, all eyes will be on who can head for the festive break with the overall leader’s spot in their back pack.

For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union