
#ShortTrackSkating

A referee starter at the 2023 ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships in Dresden, Germany.@ISU
The ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships take place at the Hala Olivia, Gdansk, Poland, from February 22-25, 2024. The competitions will award medals over 500m, 1000m and 1500m for both genders, with a 3000m relay for women and a 5000m relay for men, plus a 2000m mixed relay. This is the fourth World Junior event of 2023/24, after three brand new Junior World Cups were contested through the winter. The events have given a fresh perspective on the standard of the junior sport across the globe, while allowing racers to gather experience as they seek to step up to senior level. So far, Chinese and Korean skaters have reigned supreme, with the latter being particularly dominant.

Can anyone topple Korea?
The three Junior World Cups, and the recent Gangwon 2024 Youth Winter Olympic Games (YOG), indicate that Republic of Korea and China are the nations to watch this weekend.  At the most recent World Cup 3 in Heerenveen (NED), Republic of Korea in particular were dominant. They secured first place in all four races on the Saturday, and on Sunday they bagged another two gold medals. Yu Sumin (KOR) showed remarkable speed and technique to take her second 1500m junior title of the season, while Shin Dong Min (KOR), a great performer all term, was sublime in the Men’s 1500m to secure gold there.

Yu Sumin (KOR) competes during the 2024 ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Heerenveen, Netherlands.@ISU
Chung Jaehee (KOR), who had performed well at the Gangwon 2024 Winter Youth Olympic Games, got gold in the 1000m. Rim Jongun (KOR) was victorious in the men’s race of the same distance, and added 500m gold the next day. Rim Jongun (KOR) collected a pair of gold medals at World Cup 1, where Shin Jongun (KOR) and Shin Dong Min (KOR) also picked up victories, and Han Byeongchan (KOR) also got in the mix. Oh Songmi (KOR) has also been impressive.

Jongun Rim (KOR) celebrates after winning Men's 1000m Final A race during the 2023 ISU Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands. @ISU
Overall, Korea’s performances in Junior Short Track must be as dominant as any nation in any sport at this level. They will arrive in Poland bullish about another show of strength.

China look to strike back
For China’s women, Zhang Jianing (CHN), Lyu Wanyu (CHN) and Song Jiarui (CHN) - who is already excelling at senior level - have all been in fine form throughout the season. In the men’s disciplines, meanwhile, Li Kun (CHN) has stood out: already a member of the China senior relay team, with some respectable senior individual results too, he has won races and looked competitive in every distance.

Zhang Jianing (CHN) performs during the 2024 ISU World Cup Short Track in Dresden, Germany. @ISU
His teammates Lyu Yanpeng (CHN), Zhang Tianyi (CHN) and Zhang Bohao (CHN) have also looked mature beyond their years and got onto podiums. All will be vying to make it onto the senior team regularly soon. The European and north American nations have had disappointing returns in comparison to the Asian forces. Sean Shuai (USA) has been the exception. The American, who won gold at the Gangwon 2024 Winter Youth Olympic Games, showed his speed in the 500m again in Heerenveen, storming to gold with a fearless performance.
Tawan Thomas (FRA) is also highly rated and has made a couple of podiums, while the Dutch production line – which has been in overdrive in recent seasons – also looks to have some current potential, with Stan Rijksen (NED) and Bas Van Der Valk (NED) making podiums.

Tawan Thomas (FRA) in action during the 2024 ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Heerenveen, Netherlands.@ISU
Angel Daleman (NED), meanwhile, remains a star-in-waiting. Fans of skating across the board already know her abilities on the long track: she won three Speed Skating medals at Gangwon 2024 (500m, 1500m, mass start) – and is considered equally as accomplished on the smaller oval. Perhaps due to Short Track’s less predictable nature, she has yet to translate this potential into medals – but many will believe she can make a start on that this weekend. Quick and savvy, it remains to be seen whether she will take her career more in the direction of Ireen Wust (NED) or Suzanne Schulting (NED).

Angel Daleman (NED) reacts as she wins the Mass Start Women Final race on day three of the 2024 ISU World Junior Speed Skating Championships in Hachinohe, Japan. @ISU
Qualifying for individual distances will take place on the Thursday and Friday, with 1500m and 500m finals on the Saturday; Sunday will see the 1000m, and three relay finals take place.
The event is live streamed athttps://www.youtube.com/c/SkatingISU
For further informationabout the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships,please visit the event webpagehere.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union