

#ShortTrackSkating
There is simply no stoppingPark Ji Won(KOR). The 26-year-old racer won his ninth ISU World Cup gold medal in the final men’s individual event in Dordrecht, Netherlands on Sunday to claim the first ever Crystal Globe trophy.
Coming into the last World Cup meeting of the season, teammateHong Kyung Hwan(KOR) was still determined to deny Park the trophy but the leader of the overall classification did not falter and accumulated an astounding total of 1068 points.
Hong had to settle for a second place with 674 points asSteven Dubois(CAN) ended up being third with 668 points.
In the 1000m (2), Park demonstrated his power and tactical awareness once more as he got to lift the inaugural trophy made of high-quality crystal glass after the ice rink was transformed for a special awards ceremony.

Park Ji Won (KOR) wins the Crystal Trophy in style and now has his eyes on being World Champion. ©International Skating Union (ISU)
“I really wanted to get this first trophy and become part of Short Track history,” Park said. “I’m really proud I did it.
“I've been in and out of the squad the last years, so I wanted to make a statement this year and show everyone I’m back. That’s why I wanted to be the best in every race. Now I’m on top again.
“I’m going to keep the trophy by my side these days for sure. During breakfast, at night in my bed, it’ll be with me.
“I’m actually not sure how I'm going to take the trophy back with me on the plane as it’s really big.”
Park made a spectacular move in the final lap to overtakeRoberts Kruzbergs(LAT), who had been leading the race from the start, and snatch gold.Pascal Dion(CAN) took silver ahead of bronze medallistLuca Spechenhauser(ITA).
Many, including the Korean himself, now expect Park to dominate his home World Championships in Seoul next month. “I’m really happy,” he said. “I’ve won a lot of gold medals this season, but not one is the same. Every race has a different story.”
“You know who the owner of the Crystal Globe is right? It’s me. So let me tell you: I’m going to become the World Champion next month.”
The Crystal Globe trophy 🏆 is here and will be awarded on Sunday 😍#ShortTrackSkatingpic.twitter.com/okwmnYJ4no
Kuczynski gets rewarded
One week after staging a remarkable career comeback at the World Cup event in Dresden, Germany, whereLin Xiaojun(CHN) won the 500m, the Chinese speedster won the sprint distance once more – this time ahead ofLim Yong Jin(KOR) in second andLukasz Kuczynski(POL) in third.

Xiaojun Lin (CHN) makes it two 500m golds in as many weeks. @ISU
Kuczynski raced from the front of the pack for much of the final, before being overtaken near the very end by the two sprint sensations.
While Lin took top honours, Kuczynski’s uplifting bronze after recovering from some serious injuries throughout his career, including a leg fracture two years ago, provided smiles all around.
“This is the first individual World Cup medal of my career,” he said. “I’m so happy and grateful.
“It was an amazing feeling to experience a medal ceremony at last. I was imagining this moment a lot of times but I’ve had to go through so many lows first.
“I broke my leg before the Olympic season after I had already broken my ankle twice during my years as a Junior skater. In these moments I didn’t know if I was ever going to be able to get back to my level. But I’ve become a way better skater because of all my setbacks.
“If you go through these moments, the only way is up and this is where I’m at today. I even saw an opportunity to win gold, but it wasn’t meant to be.
“I lost a bit of pressure under my blade so I wasn’t able to turn so much in one of the corners and then Lin immediately passed me. That was perfect from his side and that’s also showing me what the best in the world are able to do.”
Sunday’s racing concluded with the 5000m Relay. Korea snatched gold with China claiming silver. Japan crossed the line in third to bag bronze.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
World Ranking Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union