

#ShortTrackWorldTour


The International Skating Union (ISU) is thrilled to unveil today a brand-new global series of elite Short Track events: theISU Short Track World Tour! Kicking off on October 25thand spanning three continents, this groundbreaking Tour of six events is set to showcase the explosive energy, fierce competition and electrifying atmosphere that only Short Track can deliver.
The Short Track World Tour is set to hit the ice with a fresh and dynamic concept that will bring new energy to every event. This series will offer a vibrant experience both on and off the ice, featuring innovative TV presentations, bold team designs, and lively venue dressing that will captivate audiences. Fans can also look forward to behind-the-scenes interviews and immersive entertainment that will take the excitement beyond the rink.
With six stops across three continents, every competition and race in the Short Track World Tour promises to keep the spectators on the edge of their seats: get ready for non-stop adrenaline-fueled battles, tactical moves and intense rivalries — all in pursuit of the coveted Crystal Globe.
This season doesn’t just mark a transformative era for Short Track — it ignites the road to the Olympics! The action will culminate with the final event in Milano, which doubles as the official test for the Milano-Cortina 2026 Olympic Winter Games.

“Our goal with the ISU Short Track World Tour is to engage fans in ways we've never done before, delivering dynamic and exhilarating competitions that capture the intensity and drama of Short Track,” says Jae Youl Kim, ISU President.
“This new concept aligns perfectly withISU Vision 2030and marks the beginning ofa significant new chapter for our sport. I believe this is a tremendous opportunity for partners and sponsors to join us on this journey, as together we can go further and push the boundaries and elevate Short Track to new heights.”
For all announcements about the ISU Short Track World Tour, visitshort-track.comand explore how you can be part of this thrilling venture.
Media accreditations for the ISU Short Track World Tour will be opening soon. In the meantime, tickets for the Tour’s first stop in Montreal are already availablehere.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union