#ShortTrackSkating

Laoun completes remarkable recovery with first World Cup gold
Almost three years to the day after he nearly died, Canada’s Maxime Laoun crowned an incredible comeback with his first individual ISU World Cup Short Track gold medal, won in the 500m in Salt Lake City.

Gold in the 500m completed an amazing comeback from injury and illness for Maxime Laoun (CAN). © International Skating Union
His victory was part of a day of heart-warming celebrations, with the popular 21-year-old DutchmanJens van ‘t Woutgrabbing 1500m gold in his debut appearance in a World Cup A final.
But first Laoun. On 22 November 2019 the Canadian broke his leg in four places. He proceeded to suffer Compartment Syndrome. Too much pressure in his blood resulted in a haemorrhage and in the space of three days he was operated on three times. He ended up leaving hospital grateful to be alive and with one plate, one rod and nine screws in his leg.
“It totally changed my mindset,” Laoun said after pipping Abzal Azhgaliyev (KAZ) to gold at the Utah Olympic Oval. Korea’s Lee June Seo, second in the 1500m at the opening World Cup in Montreal last weekend, claimed bronze.
“A lot of people thought my career was gone,” Laoun added. “I asked myself; ‘Do I really love Short Track?’ I knew if I did go back I didn’t want to be average, I wanted to be the best.”
Thankfully for the sport, the now-26-year-old chose Short Track. After getting his plate, rod and screws removed he was part of the Canadian team that won Men’s 5000m Relay gold at the Beijing Olympic Winter Games, a result that gave him the boost he needed.
“After just working on fitness for so long, I focused on my racing, my strategy this summer,” Laoun said.
A first A final followed in the 1000m(2) in Montreal and now the longed-for individual success. Even a bout of “man flu” was unable to stop his charge for gold.
“It feels so good, I couldn’t have hoped for better,” the Canadian said.
Van ‘t Wout smiles his way to victory
Van ‘t Wout knows exactly how he feels. Despite feeling like he was “dying” in the latter stages of the Men’s 1500m final, the Dutchman spent the entire last lap with a big grin on his face.
“I was just happy to be in my first A final, to win is crazy,” van ‘t Wout said. “I was dying (on the final lap) but I saw the gap I had on the TV screen and I was realizing ‘Oh s**t, I can win this’.”

1500m gold medallist Jens van 't Wout was another first-time World Cup winner in Salt Lake City. © International Skating Union
The 21-year-old’s win was greeted with huge cheers from the Dutch contingent inside the Utah Olympic Oval with van ‘t Wout’s elder brother, Melle van ‘t Wout having just flown in.
“It was amazing my brother was here, I am friends with all the team. I just try to learn off everyone,” van ‘t Wout  the younger said, before revealing he owes special thanks to one man.
“It (his improvement) is down to my new coach (Niels Kerstholt). He started this season with me and helped me get consistent, get my efficiency through the race so I can skate 9.0 (seconds) lap times. It’s really quick for the 1500m and it means I can control the race.”
He did just that in comfortably holding offPark Ji Won(KOR), the winner of the 1500m in the Montreal World Cup.
In another notable twist, Reinis Berzins (LAT) grabbed bronze. The 21-year-old’s previous best individual finish in a World Cup was 24th in the 1000m in the 2018/19 season. But after watching compatriot Roberts Kruzbergs claim Latvia’s first ever World Cup medal in Montreal, Berzins was inspired to add his own.
Saturday’s racing concluded with the 2000m Mixed Relay and it did not disappoint the boisterous home crowd. First the seemingly dominant Dutch fell when leading comfortably – Suzanne Schulting tumbling out of nowhere on the straight to complete a disappointing day – and then the USA quartet took bronze.
China, the Olympic champions, snatched gold with Korea claiming silver.
“Winning a medal with your teammates is so much better,”Kristen Santos-Griswold(USA) said. “USA Short Track is on the up.”

Local hero Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA, left) sent the crowd home happy with mixed relay bronze. © International Skating Union
Words the crowd for Sunday’s final day of racing in Salt Lake City will no doubt be delighted to hear. The men will go in the 1000m, 500m(2) and 5000m Relay.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union