#ShortTrackSkating


After the two opening events in North America producing a thrilling mix of world records, dominant performances and new names, all eyes are now on Almaty (KAZ) for the third leg of the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating 2022/23 season.
The signs are there that fans of some of the fastest action on ice are in for another treat when the action starts, December 9-11, 2022.
The battle to be crowned the first ever ISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy winners is heating up nicely, while it will be fascinating to see if young tyrosJens Van ’t Wout(NED),Roberts Kruzbergs(LAT) andKim Gilli(KOR) can keep up their eye-catching early season showing.
Add on the encouraging form of the Kazakhstan Men’s team, and it is clear Almaty’s Halyk Arena is the place to be this weekend.

Gilli Kim (KOR) competes in the Woman's 1500m final during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Salt Lake City, USA.© ISU

Dutch duo hogging the headlines
Xandra Velzeboer(NED) would no doubt protest if she is not yet in a position to be compared to her legendary teammateSuzanne Schulting. But so far this season the skaters have almost identical records.
Both have claimed three individual World Cup wins and set a world record each. Thanks to very marginally different finishes in the rest of their World Cup races, Schulting trails her 21-year-old compatriot by four points in the overall Crystal Globe race.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED)  leads the group in the women's 1000m final during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montréal, Canada.© ISU
Given the three-time Olympic Champion’s year so far, which has included four Olympic medals and two world records, it is unlikely Schulting will be prepared to end 2022 behind anyone. Expect fireworks whenever either racer lines up on the Almaty ice.
The name of the racer poised just behind the Dutch duo will be of no surprise to Schulting or indeed any skating fan. But the fact that four-time overall World ChampionChoi Min Jeong(KOR) is tied in points scored with fellow Korean Kim Gilli is somewhat unexpected.
The 18-year-old Gilli has been an absolute revelation in her debut Senior season. In her first three World Cup races ever, she finished first, second and third. She could not quite keep it up in the fourth, but second in the B final was not too far to fall. It is a sign of her extraordinary impact that it will now be more of a shock if her “dream start” does not continue in Kazakhstan.

Kim Boutin (CAN) and Minjeong Choi (KOR) during Day 3 of the ISU World Short Track Championships 2022 in Montréal, Canada.© ISU
Elsewhere, CanadiansKim BoutinandCourtney Saraultmade welcome returns to form last time out in Salt Lake City. After both taking extra time off in the summer, the pair looked like things were clicking back into place, picking up an individual gold and silver between them. They will now be expecting more.

Walk in the Park
Another skater anticipating more time on the podium isPark Ji Won(KOR). He cannot stop winning. After two individual and two Relay World Cup golds, plus a few silver medals, the 26-year-old is comfortably top of the Crystal Globe Men’s standings.
Park admitted in Salt Lake City that he feels “like a winner” every time he steps on the ice right now. However, he is not the only one.

Ji Won Park (KOR) competes in the mens 1500m Quarterfinals during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montréal, Canada.© ISU
Winning might not have been commonplace for Jens van ’t Wout before he touched down in Salt Lake City last month but now the Dutchman has a taste for it. After victory in the 1500m, his first ever A Final, the 21-year-old followed it up with a triumph in his second, the 500m.
His teammate Teun Boer (NED) is another who will be keen to pick up where he left off. As another 21-year-old, he missed out in Salt Lake City, being struck down by Covid-19 just days after he had claimed his first ever World Cup medal.
There have been ‘first evers’ for Latvians Kruzbergs andReinis Berzinstoo: Kruzbergs won his nation’s first ever World Cup medal, grabbing 1000m gold in Montreal, then Berzins took Latvia’s first 1500m medal, with bronze in Salt Lake City.

Reinis Berzins (LAT) skates ahead in the men's 1000m B semifinal during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montréal, Canada.© ISU
All four emerging stars demand close attention in Almaty, while no doubt great friendsSteven Dubois(CAN) andPascal Dion(CAN) will be keen to make their mark.

Home comforts
Finally, the likes ofAbzal Azhgaliyev,Denis NikishaandAdil Galiakhmetovlook well set to send the hometown crowd wild. The Kazak trio each won an individual medal in Salt Lake City, having teamed up to snatch silver in the Men’s 5000m Relay in Montreal. It makes for impressive reading, especially considering all three have said this season that their primary focus is the World Cup action in their homeland.
The stage is set.

Abzal Azhgaliyev (KAZ) skates ahead of Steven Dubois (CAN) in the mens 500m quarterfinals during the ISU World Cup Short Track in Montréal, Canada.© ISU

For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relaywcst

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union