

#ShortTrackSkating
Park Ji Won(KOR) andSteven Dubois(CAN) claimed the two ISU World Cup gold medals on offer in the men’s events in Dordrecht, Netherlands on Saturday to kick off the last meeting of the season in style.
Dubois overcame a tough outside starting position to win the 1000m (1). He pounced from second to first with three laps remaining and never looked back.

Making a point: 1000m (1) winner Steven Dubois (CAN) celebrates returning to the top of the World Cup podium. @ISU
The 25-year-old racer was joined on the podium by teammatePascal Dion(CAN) to complete a Canadian one-two, withRoberts Kruzbergs(LAT) claiming bronze.
“I began in fifth position and knew everyone was going to start really fast from looking at the previous rounds,” Dubois said. “I knew that the only chance I had to move up first was at the beginning, otherwise I would have to be patient.
“I saw Dion up front and knew I was going to get this small chance to pass outside, which I did. It’s not the first time we’ve raced against each other like this so with that in mind I was able to come first in the end.”
Dubois returned to the top step of the World Cup podium for the first time since the opening event on home ice in Montreal, where he won gold in the sprint distance.
“It was time to win again,” Dubois said, explaining why he pointed at his wrist after he crossed the finish line.
“It was a super-hard race, so I’m really excited about finishing first. This means a lot to me.”
Dion realised soon after his friend and teammate passed him that it was going to be hard to overtake Dubois again: “I was up front for like nine laps already,” Dion said. “I wanted to be aggressive and defend my position every time I saw someone coming from the inside or outside. But Dubois timed his pass to perfection.
“I was just trying to protect my second position from that moment. Maybe if he had a little slip or something I would’ve been able to make a move but he finished very strong.
“It’s been a while since two Canadians have been at the top of the podium, so we’re just proud of ourselves. Coming into the weekend we said we were going for a set of one-two finishes, so I’m hoping that we can change positions on the podium tomorrow.”
Park continues dominant showing
On the back of two first-place finishes in Dresden, Germany last weekend, it was Park who bagged gold yet again in the 1500m, continuing his dominant showing ahead of his home World Championships in Seoul next month.
With his eight individual World Cup golds of the season, he is also well clear in the race for the Crystal Globe trophy – a new prize to coronate the best overall male and female racer – with 968 points.
The Crystal Globe trophy 🏆 is here and will be awarded on Sunday 😍#ShortTrackSkatingpic.twitter.com/okwmnYJ4no
Park moved to the front of the pack with four laps remaining and was able to hold on for a convincing win. He was joined on the podium by compatriot Lee Donghyun (KOR) andJens van ‘t Wout(NED).
“I feel very happy every time I win gold,” Park said. “I know I’m one of the best skaters out there and I’m glad I could show that again today.”
“I can’t wait to receive the Crystal Globe tomorrow. It has always been my goal to win this price. That’s something I had in the back of my mind from the beginning of the season.”

Park Ji Won (KOR) has one hand on the Crystal Globe Trophy with victory in the 1500m. @ISU
Donghyun meanwhile claimed the first Senior medal of his career, after he had already demonstrated his promising talent with two gold medals at the most recent ISU World Junior Short Track Championships.
“It feels really nice to perform like this on such a high level as well,” Donghyun said. “I’m really proud and happy to be on the podium together with my teammate. He [Park] is someone I look up to a lot.”
“I hope this is only the beginning for me. I’m working very hard to be on the same level as the other skaters on the Korean team. The standard is very high.”
In an exciting Mixed Team Relay final, the Netherlands bagged gold on home ice, with anchor Van 't Wout (NED) fending off a late challenge from Jordan Pierre-Gilles to win ahead of Canada. Poland claimed bronze.
Men’s racing continues in Dordrecht for the final time this World Cup season with the 500m, 1000m (2) and 5000m Relay finals on Sunday.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
World Ranking Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union