#ShortTrackSkating


Latvia won its first ever Short Track medal at the Maurice-Richard Arena, Montreal on Saturday – and a brilliant performance fromRoberts Kruzbergsmade sure it was gold.
The 21-year-old from Ventspils has had to leave his homeland to train in the sport, but after improving radically last season, the powerful racer fulfilled his promise by winning the 1000m (1).

Roberts Kruzbergs wins Latvia's first ever World Cup short track medal, a gold, in Montreal, Canada on Saturday.© ISU
“It’s an incredible feeling, I dreamed about this,” said Kruzbergs. “Latvia has never won any World Cup medal, so it’s a wonderful feeling to be the first one to do it, and of course a gold medal is even better.
“I feel really good about the training I put in. I worked for this. Short Track is a small sport in Latvia, so me and my teammates had to train with the Polish team. It is difficult, most of the time I am not in Latvia and can’t see my family and friends, but a gold medal is worth it.
“I will call my mum and dad now, and they will be excited. They said, ‘six years of World Cups and never a medal – when is it going to come?’ Now I can show them I did it.
“Last year I trained with the German team and my results improved. Now with Poland, the results are growing again. The ice, many laps, the gym, the bike – that’s the key. I would like to win more medals now, but this sport is unpredictable.”
Kruzbergs beat Lim Yong Jim (KOR), who got silver, with Teun Boer (NED) winning bronze.

Teun Boer recovered from a disappointing morning to claim bronze in the men's 1000m (1).© ISU
Liu brothers' absence opens the door for others
It always looked like a weekend for surprises. With World Champion Shaoang Liu (HUN) and his brother Shaolin Sándor Liu (HUN) both absent, and several top Chinese racers, including Olympic gold medallists Ren Ziwei (CHN) and Wu Dajing (CHN) also not taking part, the post-Olympic year is always time for newcomers to shine.
Boer was another: this is his first season on the tour. “I only earned my spot on the team three weeks ago,” said the 21-year-old. “This morning I skated the repechage because I messed up my first race. So yesterday I would have said no way I can win a medal. But it’s Short Track and anything can happen. The race was chaotic – even the medal ceremony hurt my legs.”The 1500m had a more familiar feel.Park Jiwon(KOR), a multiple winner on the tour, took gold, with local hero andSteven Dubois(CAN) coming in second. Hong Kyung Hwan (KOR) was third.
“It was a crazy race and I knew I had to get to the front, everyone was trying to pass,” said Dubois. “I got pushed back and took some laps to retain my composure. The whole Korean pool are so strong and it is never easy facing them.”

Park Jiwon wins the men's 1500m ahead of local favourite Steven Dubois (CAN).© ISU
Racing resumes on Sunday with the second round of 1000m races, the 500m races and the 5000m final.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union