
#ShortTrackWorldTour

After waiting all season for a first gold, a resurgentKristen Santos-Griswold (USA)grabbed two in an afternoon to snatch the lead in the women’s Crystal Globe race, as the ISU Short Track World Tour Seoul, presented by KB Financial, came to an electrifying conclusion on Sunday.

The USA Eagle had started the day fifth in the rankings, a vast 162 points behind leaderXandra Velzeboer (NED). But, after having a firm word with herself on Saturday, she exploded into the kind of form that saw her claim six World Cup golds and a World Championship title last season.

A dominant 1500m gold followed and just 90 minutes later, so too did the 500m title. This rare distance-sprint double, combined with the relative struggles of long-time Crystal Globe leader Velzeboer, sent Santos-Griswold to the top.

Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) skating ahead in the women's 500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul. © ISU

She now heads into the holiday period with a 10-point lead over Velzeboer, while defending championKim Gilli (KOR)lurks in third.

‘I knew I was strong enough’

Three silver medals, one in each discipline, in the opening three-and-a-half ISU World Tour events had been a scant return for a skater with Santos-Griswold’s pedigree. And the 30-year-old admitted that she has found it hard to deal with the rising level in women’s Short Track.

“Last year was obviously a really amazing year for me and it was a little bit like I could get out in front and leave some space and take advantage of that but this year, everyone has been right there,” Santos Griswold said. “That’s something that I have had to try wrap my head around quite a bit.”

It all came to a head during Saturday’s 1000m final, in which she finished fourth.

“I was in the right position and then I let someone float right inside of me,” she said. “And after, I realised I don’t want that to happen anymore. I knew I was strong enough.”

She soon proved it on Sunday. First, she came through a massive 1500m semifinal. Facing Kim, the woman who beat her to world championship 1500m gold in March,Corinne Stoddard (USA), the 1500m winner last weekend in Beijing, plus legendArianna Fontana (ITA)and in-formDanae Blais (CAN), Santos-Griswold “took a lot of deep breaths” and then “took advantage” of her abilities.

Buoyed by dominating that stacked semifinal, the USA Eagle came flying out the gate in the final. Fellow front-running lovers, Stoddard and Belgian Ice BearHanne Desmetattempted to stretch her but she never panicked and with three laps to go she surged into an unassailable lead.

Desmet took silver, with Stoddard, fighting exhaustion, claiming bronze. Two-time reigning Olympic championChoi Minjeong (KOR)could only manage fourth.


Silver medalist Hanne Desmet (BEL), gold medalist Kristen Santos-Griswold and bronze medalist Corinne Stoddard (USA) celebrate during the women's 1500m victory ceremony at the ISU Short Track World Tour. © ISU

“Figuring out how to maneuver in a race and the tactics behind it has been definitely a little bit of a learning curve for me but hopefully, now I am on the right path,” Santos-Griswold said.

Desmet could only applaud her rivals' efforts.

“It was a nice race, it’s fun to race that way,"the 1000m Olympic bronze medalist said."A very strong field, tightly packed. You have to calculate when to go, when to pass back and be very active. If you wait too long, you lose.”

Stoddard knows just what she means.

“I definitely need rest, my legs definitely don’t feel like they did last week,” said Stoddard, who won her maiden world title in Beijing. “But I am also really happy for my teammate to get a gold.”

Sprint queen Velzeboer finally dethroned

Stoddard did not have to wait long to watch her friend do it all again. No one had beaten Velzeboer in a World Tour 500m this season but finally, Santos-Griswold – once known only as a distance skater – managed it.

The pair met in the semifinals and with a confidence-fueled Santos-Griswold flying out in front, Velzeboer fell foul of the referee and was penalized. It completed a weekend in which the Dutch Lion failed to reach the A final in the 1000m, ended fourth in the women’s relay and was penalized in the mixed relay.

“I think it’s already been a little bit of a tough weekend,” Velzeboer said. “Short Track, it’s impossible for every competition to go exactly how you want it and they say it also makes the sport beautiful. Sometimes when it’s one of those days though, it doesn’t feel great.”

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) competing in the women's 500m at the ISU Short Track World Tour at Mokdong Ice Rink. © ISU

It was on to the final for Santos-Griswold and she once again let it fly, grabbing the lead fromFlorence Brunelle (CAN)early on and never letting it go.

“I love the 500m because you don’t have to think about it,” Santos-Griswold said with a laugh. “You just go out there and go.”

A second sprint silver in succession for Brunelle was not bad, with the Canadian Ice Maple suffering from sickness all week.

“Behind the scenes this week has been a hell of a ride,” said Brunelle, who crossed just ahead of bronze medalist Desmet. “A lot of motivation to keep going because I want to get gold.”

She will get her next chance at the fifth ISU Short Track World Tour stop in Tilburg, the Netherlands from 7-9 February.

ISU Women’s Crystal Globe standings:
1. Kristen Santos-Griswold – 738 points
2. Xandra Velzeboer – 728 points
3. Kim Gilli – 692 points

ISU Team Crystal Globe standings:
1. Canadian Ice Maples – 6116 points
2. Korean White Tigers – 5448 points
3. Dutch Lions – 4120 points

About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!




Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union