#WorldShortTrack #UpAgain

Shaoang Liu (HUN) reacts to his win in the 1500m © International Skating Union
No brother, no problem.
Shaoang Liu(HUN), competing without his usual on-ice teammate and brother, skated his way to two gold medals in the first two events of the World Short Track Championships in Montreal.
The reigning world champion leads the overall standings going into the final day after claiming victories in the 500m and 1500m finals. Liu crossed first in every one of his quarter and semifinal races on Saturday.
It was not as easy as it looked. “My body was already tired but my head, my mentality, is overdosed,” said Liu.
The Hungarian skater had to be his own coach between races to power through.
“To be honest, it’s really hard because I am alone. None of my brother or coach is here, so it is pretty tiring to keep focusing. I was just telling myself, it is only me here so you have to do it. If not you, then who can do it? That is how I keep my mind together,” said Liu.
The two gold medals are the third and fourth of Liu’s world championship career. He also claimed gold in the 500m at the Olympic Winter Games Beijing 2022.
The absence of 1500m Olympic gold medallistHwang Dae Heon(KOR) — and the Chinese and Russian teams — left the door open for some new medallists.

Stijn Desmet (BEL) leads Pascal Dion (CAN) and Lee June Se (KOR) in the 1500m © International Skating Union
Stijn Desmet(BEL) claimed bronze in the 1500m for his first world championship medal and then followed it up with another bronze in the 500m. The results surprised even Desmet, although he knew he was ready to make the leap.
“I felt like I made good progress in training and was ready to compete for the wins and the finals. I am happy. With short track there is a lot of luck involved, and I avoided all the bad luck, and got nice results,” said Desmet.
Desmet was inspired by his sister,Hanne Desmet(BEL), a fellow short track skater who claimed bronze at Beijing 2022.
“She has been putting the pressure on me, saying it is your time to shine, which is nice motivation. She really wants me to do well, so that is extra motivation for me,” said Desmet.

Quentin Fercoq (FRA) in the men's 500mm final © International Skating Union
Quentin Fercoq(FRA) rounded out the podium with silver in the 500m, while hometown favoritePascal Dion(CAN) powered through the pain to win silver in the 1500m.
“You never get through it, the hurt of short track,” said Dion. “You have to live with it. Just focus on your strategy even if it hurts. I think that is the key goal of short track.”
Dion also helped the Canadian team to qualify for the final in the 5000m relay in front of the raucous crowd. The relay final will be the last race for the legendaryCharles Hamelin(CAN), who will be attempting to end his career with a 15th world championship gold medal. Hamelin received multiple cheers from the supportive crowd in his home province of Quebec.

The enthusiastic crowd cheered on Charles Hamelin (CAN) in his final competition © International Skating Union
The Republic of Korea, Hungary and the Netherlands will round out the field for the final in the 5000m relay on Sunday.
The loud cheers for Hamelin were not the only touching moments from the crowd. SkaterOleh Handei(UKR) also received a rousing standing ovation before taking the ice in the 500m quarterfinals.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union