ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating 2015/16 – Nagoya (JPN)
Day 3
The second s The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2015/16 resumed today in Nagoya (JPN) with the Ladies and Men’s 1000 m, second 500 m and the Relay events.
Kexin Fan and Francois Hamelin top of podium in the 500 m
Kexin Fan of China won her second 500 m event of the weekend, with yet another dominating race. Fan led the race from start to finish, and takes the lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. Anna Seidel (GER) finished in second place, while Audrey Phaneuf (CAN) finished third, to claim her first individual World Cup medal. Suk Hee Shim (KOR) finished fourth after receiving a penalty.
On the Men’s side, Francois Hamelin (CAN) won his first ever individual World Cup gold medal in a race that he led from start to finish. Five skaters took to the start. Artem Kozlov (RUS) crossed the finish line in second place, after making a pass on the last lap. Guang Chen (CHN) took the last podium spot. Tianyu Han (CHN) and Satoshi Sakashita (JPN) finished in fourth and fifth place respectively. Charles Hamelin (CAN) who did not compete in today’s 500 m event maintains his lead in the World Cup classification for the distance.
Minjeong Choi earns a second individual gold medal of the weekend
Minjeong Choi Suk of Korea won the Ladies’ 1000 m event and takes the lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. Choi took the lead with three laps to go and held on for the win. Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) crossed the finish line in second place, while Alang Kim (KOR) was third. Yize Zang (CHN) finished fourth and Lara van Ruijven (NED) was fifth.
On the Men’s side, Semen Elistratov (RUS) won the 1000 m event, a race that he led from start to finish. Shaolin Sandor Liu (HUN) finished second, ahead of Freek van der Wart (NED). Charles Hamelin (CAN) was handed a penalty, and classified fourth in the event. The win moves Elistratov at the top of the World Cup classification for the distance.
Korea: women’s team earns third gold medal of the season
For the third time this season, the Ladies’ 3000 m Relay is won by the team from Korea. The team is now three for three, and the win extends Korea’s lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. China finished in second place, while Canada finished third. Russia had to settle for fourth place.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was won by the Netherlands, followed very close behind by China (second) and Canada (third). The top three teams were separated by less than four tenths of a second. The other team in the race was Korea. China maintains its lead in the World Cup classification.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series continues in Shanghai (CHN) on December 11-13, 2015.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union