The third ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating event of the season took place at the Centre de Glaces Intact Assurance, Quebec City, Canada from 21-23 February – with the next generation of skaters once again showcasing their abilities.
The Republic of Korea has been dominant at this level for a number of seasons, and at the first two ISU Junior World Cups – both held in November in Bormio, Italy – the likes ofRim Jongun(KOR) andOh Songmi(KOR) reigned supreme.
Oh Songmi (KOR) clinches victory in the women's 1500m (2) at the ISU Junior World Cup Speed Skating in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
It was the Asian nation that again prevailed in Quebec – although there was plenty to cheer about for the home crowd, too, especially on Sunday.
Kim and Rim take the accolades on Day 1
Republic of Korea has been especially good in the young men’s racing this term, and this was showcased in the 1000m final on Saturday, as the nation completed a podium clean sweep.

Rim Jongun (KOR) takes 1000m gold at the ISU Junior World Cup Speed Skating in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
Rim, brilliant in the opening Junior World Cups in November, put his name up in lights again. He was dynamic and tactically astute as he raced to 1000m gold, showing once again that he looks ready for the senior circuit.
Rim’s compatriotsJoo Jaehee(KOR), andKoo Minseung(KOR) took silver and gold respectively.

(L-R) Joo Jaehee, Rim Jongun, and Koo Minseung (all KOR) swept the men's 1000m at the ISU Junior World Cup Speed Skating in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
In the women’s racing,Kim Minji(KOR) also secured victory for Republic of Korea. A crash earlier in the 1000m final took out Oh, allowing Kim to skate comfortably from the front.
The local crowd were delighted to seeVictoria Jean-Baptiste(CAN), considered one of the finest young Short Trackers in Quebec, keep pace with Kim to secure silver.Panka Nogradiof Hungary secured the bronze.

(L-R) Victoria Jean-Baptiste (CAN), Kim Minji (KOR), and Panka Nógrádi (HUN) pose with their medals following the women's 1000m in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
In the Mixed Relay, meanwhile, Republic of Korea completed a near-perfect day. Kim and Oh joined forces with the excellentKoo Minseung(KOR) andPark Seojun(KOR) to dominate the race and scoop gold. They beat off Kazakhstan, who got silver, and Canada, who earned bronze.
Three golds for Canada on Day 2
Rep. Korea continued its dominance on Sunday, winning both the women’s 1500m races:Yu Sumin, who has also been a force this season, triumphed in the first, ahead ofDiana Laura Vegi(HUN) andLi Jinzi(CHN).

Yu Sumin (KOR) wins the women's 1500m at the ISU Junior World Cup Speed Skating in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
Korea then backed up their reputation as masters of the most tactical of distances, as Oh,Kang Minjiand Kim completed a podium sweep in the 1500m (2), finishing 1-2-3 respectively. These brilliant racers have a similar technique and temperament to their senior compatriots likeKim Gilli(KOR) andChoi Min Jeong(KOR), and will be names to watch in the future.

Oh Songmi (KOR) clinches victory in the women's 1500m (2) in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
Rim and Joo completed Republic of Korea’s medal haul, finishing first and second in the men’s 1500m (2), ahead ofSun Xiao(CHN) in third.
The other countries, however, would have their say.
Zhang Bohao(CHN), another racer to have an impressive 2024/25 at this level, won the men’s 1500m (1) ahead ofLeon Visser(NED) and Sun Xiao (CHN).

Zhang Bohao (CHN): gold medalist in the men’s 1500m (1) in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
It was the sprints, though, that got the crowd really enthused.
Canadians are already excited by the potential ofMathieu Pelletier(CAN) – he is the youngest Canadian male Short Tracker to win a medal at a senior World Cup event (he was 16 when he was part of a 2000m Mixed Relay team which claimed bronze in Montreal in 2022).
Earlier this seasonhe broke the junior World Record in the 500m, and here he showed this was no fluke, taking another gold. Kim Minwoo (KOR) took silver and Victor Chartrand (CAN) the bronze.

Another 500m gold for Mathieu Pelletier (CAN) in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
Jean-Baptiste then sent the crowd wild with a second gold for Canada. She bossed the 500m, winning ahead ofZeinep Kumarkan(KAZ) andAnna Falkowska(POL).
With the Canadian Ice Mapleswinning the senior ISU Crystal Globe this season, Quebec’s production line of rapid racers doesn’t look like slowing down any time soon.

Victory for Victoria: Canada's Victoria Jean-Baptiste takes 500m gold in Quebec City, Canada © ISU
China won the 3000m men’s Relay ahead of Netherlands and Rep. Korea, and there was one last hurrah for the Quebec City fans, as Canada took women’s 3000m relay gold, ahead of Rep. Korea and China.
The racers now move on to Calgary for theISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships, held 27 February - 2 March.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union