#ShortTrackSkating
The first ISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skating event of the season takes place at the Palaghiaccio, Bormio, Italy, from November, 8 to 10.
It will be followed by a second event at the same venue the following weekend, November 14 to 16.
The ISU Junior World Cup Short Track events are relatively newt, introduced for the first time in the 2023/24 season, as a way for young skaters to gain experience and progress to the senior ISU Short Track World Tour.

Lucas Henry Koo (BRA) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
They build up to the ISU World Junior Short Track Championships which will take place in Collalbo (ITA) in February.
The World Cup competitions will award medals over 500m, 1000m and 1500m for both genders, with 3000m relays for women and men, plus a 2000m mixed relay.
Events at this level have always thrown up athletes who have gone on to thrive at world and Olympic level.

Chung Jaehee (KOR) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
Asian nations look to continue medal spree
Last season, Asian skaters dominated proceedings at this level, as well as at the Gangwon 2024 Youth Olympic Winter Games.
Among the most successful competitors from Korea, Short Track’s superpower, last season were Yu Sumin (KOR) and Rim Jongun (KOR). Both of them return for the Italian event and are expected to dominate.
Oh Songmi (KOR), Chung Jaehee (KOR) and Kang Minji (KOR) also won medals at last season’s events, too, and with another season of experience under their belts, will be expected to make podiums again.

Sun Xiao (CHN) ©International Skating Union (ISU)
For China, Yang Jingru (CHN) and Sun Xiao (CHN) put in exceptional performances in 2023/24, and like their Korean contemporaries, will be aiming to show that they are ready to step up to senior level by winning medals here.
Beyond the big two nations, Zhanshuo Lou (HKG) and Berenice Comby (FRA) had excellent junior meetings last term, while Lucas Henry Koo (BRA) was impressive in Gangwon, and will look to continue his quest to put Brazil on the Short Track map.
Qualifying takes place on Friday November 8, with 1000m and 1500m finals and mixed relay final contested on Saturday; 500m and 1000m finals continue on Sunday along with the men’s and women’s relays.
At the 2017 World Championships,Shaoang Liuof Hungary was victorious in the 500m, 1000m and 1500m.
In Bormio 2020,Sun Longof China andXandra Velzeboerof the Netherlands were among the stars, while at Montreal 2019,Maame Bineyof USA andSeo Whi-minof Republic of Korea won titles.
Great skaters likeSuzanne Schulting(NED),Choi Min Jeong(KOR), andLee June-seo(KOR) have all previously  been on junior podiums, too.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union