#ShortTrackSkating
Kim Gun Woo (KOR) leads the pack in the Men's 1500m in Beijing, China  © ISU

The second coming of Short Track starKim Gun Woo(KOR) continued at pace on the opening day of the ISU World Cup in Beijing with the Korean flying to yet another victory before delivering an ominous message.
Kim, who spent the past four seasons absent from elite-level skating, has now picked up three golds, two silvers and a bronze on his return to the World Cup circuit. It is a record the fashion-conscious, earring-wearing skater was happy to reflect on after grabbing 1500m glory ahead of the heavily backedLi Wenlong(CHN) and the ever-improvingWilliam Dandjinou(CAN).



Kim Gun Woo (KOR) and Li Wenglong (CHN) celebrate with their coaches in Beijing, China © ISU

“It’s amazing to be back, this season is getting better and better,” Kim said, having smoothly overtaken Li on the final-lap bell, much to the consternation of the home crowd.

“That was one of the most intense races so far,” Kim added. “I have trained hard though and it made the difference.”
In the 2018/19 season Kim won four World Cup gold medals and he has almost matched that feat with half the season ahead of him. Perhaps more worryingly for his rivals, he feels like he has only just started.
“I am going to get better and better,” the 25-year-old said. “I am getting more comfortable and confident.”
His form is proving too much right now for heralded teammatePark Ji Won(KOR). Last season’s overall Crystal Globe winner was unable to impose himself on the 1500m final, finishing fifth. Although while Kim admitted that it was “good” to beat Park, he did insist the reigning champion is his “biggest rival”.



Park Ji Won (KOR) (R) was unable to recreate previous World Cup magic in Beijing, China © ISU

Pierre-Gilles lays down another marker
Plenty in the men’s field may well dispute that assertion, not least because fresh names are putting themselves in headlights on an almost weekly basis. While silver in the 1500m was a first World Cup medal for Li – one of three Chinese skaters to achieve such a feat on a generally heartening day for the home team – Canada’sJordan Pierre-Gillesis having to get used to the top step of the podium.
Last month he claimed his first World Cup title, triumphing in the 500m in his hometown of Montreal and it is a sensation the 24-year-old was clearly keen to repeat. Even so, his route to a second sprint gold was considerably more dramatic than his first.
“I felt like there was going to be action after the first lap. I sawLin (Xiaojun, CHN) was building for a pass, so I was trying to stay ready for whatever happened and I am happy I did because I benefitted from that,” Pierre-Gilles said.



Fresh from his first World Cup sprint gold in Montreal, Jordan Pierre-Gilles (CAN) celebrates another in Beijing, China © ISU

He certainly did benefit. In attempting to pass teammate and first-lap leaderLiu Shaoang(CHN), Lin only succeeded in knocking the Olympic 500m champion to the ice. A move for which he ultimately received a penalty.
The failure of either heavily fancied Chinese skater to win a medal summed up a somewhat mixed day for the home team. Four silver medals and a bronze – three of which were claimed by first-time World Cup medal winners – represented an impressive haul but the absence of a gold will hurt.
Not that Liu was holding anything against his compatriot.
“It’s Short Track,” the younger of the Liu brothers said. “I told Xiaojun straight away not to worry and just to focus on the next race.”



Lin Xiaojun (CHN) chases compatriot Liu Shaoang in the 500m in Beijing, China © ISU

The clash at the front not only left the way open for the impressive Canadian winner, it also gave an opportunity to the fast-risingQuentin Fercoq(FRA). Fresh from a 500m bronze in Montreal, a first individual World Cup medal, the Frenchman upgraded to silver, finishing just ahead of another young skater enjoying a fine start to the season,Jens van ’t Wout(NED).
“This is the first time I have ever had a big summer of training, during the last three years I had injuries or I was sick but this year it was really good,” Fercoq said. “I feel more and more confident. I don’t expect my opponents to fear my name yet but at least my name is known now.”
There is no doubt the entire men’s field knows the name Kim Gun Woo and on Sunday the overall standings leader will get a chance to further stamp his authority on the season. Do not miss it.



Rising star Quentin Fercoq (FRA) takes silver in Beijing, China © ISU


For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union