
#ShortTrackSkating
The ISU European Short Track Championships 2023 in Gdansk, Poland always looked likely to produce some new star names – and Saturday at the Hala Olivia did not disappoint.
21-year-oldJens van ’t Wout(NED), who has had a dream season already in the World Cups, won his first major tournament gold in the 1500m, before adding silver in the 500m to continue his rise to the top of Short Track.
Pietro Sighel(ITA), meanwhile, grabbed 500m gold with the best performance of his career so far.
Training mates tussle in 1500m
In the 1500m, Van ’t Wout andFriso Emons(NED) led from the front, but were challenged with three laps to go asStijn Desmet(BEL) powered ahead.
But Van ’t Wout made a fine last-minute pass on Desmet to seize victory in a photo finish. The two men are hard to separate on any day: they are close friends, and the Belgian trains with Van ’t Wout at the Netherlands camp in Heerenveen.

Jens van ’t Wout (NED), right, snatches 1500m European Championships gold on the line from Belgium's Stijn Desmet. © ISU
“It was a crazy ending,” Van ’t Wout said. “It is hard, because we race all the time, so we know exactly what each other can do. But we kept it clean and it was a nice finish. In training we are always switching around.”
The versatile, stylish Dutch racer has had three World Cup wins in 2022-23 – one in each individual distance. But this is his first individual podium at a major championships.
“This is awesome, I’ve been working really hard since last summer and to see it all pay off is really nice,” he said. “It feels weird that I can win. Last season I was skating as a midfielder, and now I’m up in the front, it is pretty crazy.”
Desmet was glowing about his colleague.
“He is so efficient as a skater, I can see it every day, it is no effort at all for Jens,” he said.
“He really glides. I feel like I am making so much effort when I skate, everything is moving, but for him it looks like a single movement. He is like an angel over the ice.

Desmet (BEL), left, was disappointed in defeat but pleased with his improving form, while Friso Emons' bronze was his first international medal. © ISU
“I almost thought I had won, but I know what Jens can do, how he can finish from training. I was hoping that this wasn’t the day he did it. We beat each other all the time, and his leg is long at the finish when it is close.
“It hurts a bit to lose on the line, but I think it was a very nice race. I feel like I’m improving. I feel stronger than last year. We have all got better and I am trying to keep up. I am skating faster and smarter.”
Emons secured his first ever individual podium with his third place.
“This is amazing, a special moment,” he said.
"This season has been going so well for me, I have improved big time. I finished fourth at the World Cups twice and of course that was nagging at me. It’s nice that I finally won my first international medal.
“It’s nice to see we are so dominant with the Dutch and with Stijn. That we get 1-2-3 is fantastic.”
Sighel shines in 500m
Pietro Sighel has been a threat in the 500m over the last couple of seasons – winning silver at the 2021 Euros and two World Cup bronzes, but never climbing to the top of a podium.
On Saturday at the Hala Olivia, he looked at his very best. Sighel hit the front early, with the speedy Van ’t Wout in hot pursuit. But his scorching pace was too much even for the Dutchman.Reinis Berzins(LAT) came third.

2021 silver medalist Pietro Sighel (ITA) finally climbed onto the top step of an international podium with gold in the 500m.© ISU
“I did a good race, my feeling was very good in the 500m,” he said. “I’m very happy for my first gold in an international race – it is the best moment.
“I’m not sure it’s the best race I’ve ever done, but it is my favourite win because it is the first.
"I have got my sister here to celebrate and that’s important, my dad is also here and other family. I will try to keep this going. The goal is always the gold.”
Berzins was satisfied with a performance that adds to Latvia’s reputation as an up-and-coming Short Track nation, following the World Cup gold medal Roberts Kruzbergs (LAT) clocked in Montreal earlier this season.

Van ’t Wout (NED) won his second medal of the day in the 500m while Reinis Berzins won Latvia's first European Championships medal in five years.© ISU
“This day has been up and down, I cut myself in the 1500m, which was my main race, so I see this as an extra bonus,” said Berzins.
“I am happy to end up with a medal, and it is one of my best performances. For Latvia, it is our first European medal in a long time, so I am pleased.”
But it was a day for theOranje. With Van ’t Wout at the forefront, and the likes of Emons and Teun Boer (NED) not far behind, this is an exciting crop of new athletes.
“We have so many good young Dutch skaters because we are training so well together, and we push each other forward,” Van ’t Wout said.
Expect a strong challenge again on Sunday, as the European Championships continue with the 1000m and the relays.
For all information about the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships, please visit webpagehere.
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships competitions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union