Hungary'sShaoang Liuwon his first World Cup race of the season in the final Men’s individual event in Dordrecht on Sunday to reassert himself as one of the medal favorites for the upcoming Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games.


Shaoang Liu claimed his first World Cup gold of the season in Dordrecht © International Skating Union

After a quiet World Cup campaign that had produced only one individual podium before Sunday, Liu led from the start in the 1000m in a clinical display that will give the 500m World Champion a timely confidence boost in the lead-up to Beijing.
With teammateJohn-Henry Kruegerholding off the pack behind him, Liu controlled the race and was never seriously threatened. Krueger won silver and Italy'sPietro Sighelclaimed bronze.

Liu crossed the line ahead of teammate John-Henry Krueger © International Skating Union

"It's always easier when you can skate with your teammate," said Liu's brotherShaolin Sandor Liu, who went out in the quarter finals.
"I was next to the ice so I was cheering for him (Shaoang). I'm really glad for him and it was a big relief for him too."


Hungarian pair Liu (C) and Krueger (L) were joined on the podium by Italy's Pietro Sighel © International Skating Union

In the Men's 5000m Relay, Canada looked set for their third consecutive World Cup gold until Korea'sKwak Yoon-Gyexecuted a stunning overtaking move on the inside of the final turn.

Kwak's stunning move saw him snatch gold for Korea in the Men's 5000m Relay © International Skating Union

Kwak and Canada'sSteven Duboislunged for the finish line with Korea winning by 2.3 hundredths of a second.


Korea celebrate a dramatic win in the Men's 5000m Relay © International Skating Union

The Liu brothers and Krueger helped Hungary win bronze.
"It's a huge relief and I'm really happy to be done with it (the World Cup season)," said Shaolin Sandor Liu. "We got the (Olympic) spots we wanted and we are really happy."


Men's 5000m Relay medallists Korea (C), Canada (L) and Hungary (R) © International Skating Union

In an exciting Mixed Team Relay final, the Netherlands pipped Hungary for gold as Dutch anchorJens van 't Woutcrossed the line 3.5 hundredths of a second ahead of Shaolin Sandor Liu.


Netherlands also claimed Mixed Relay gold in Dordrecht  © International Skating Union

Overall World Cup season champion China claimed bronze.


Netherlands (C) topped the Mixed Relay podium ahead of Hungary (L) and China (R) © International Skating Union

Dordrecht is the final event in the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating series. It consisted of four events during 2021/22 and they were all qualifying events for Beijing 2022.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union