The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2014/15 resumed today in Salt Lake City (USA) with the Ladies and Men’s 500 m, second 1000 m and Relay events.
Kexin Fan (CHN) and John-Henry Krueger (USA) claim wins in the 500 m
Kexin Fan of China claimed the win in the Ladies’ 500 m event this weekend. Arianne Fontana (ITA) earned the second place and Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) settled for third.
Kexin Fan led the race from start to finish, earning her second individual medal of the weekend. Arianna Fontana moved into second place early in the race, managing to hold off St-Gelais and Ji-Soo Jeon (KOR) who finished in fourth place.
On the Men’s side, John-Henry Krueger (USA) won an exciting 500 m event that saw three lead changes and a penalty awarded to Victor An (RUS). Sjinkie Knegt (NED) finished second and Dajing Wu (CHN) finished third, despite a fall mid-race.
Second set of 1000 m events provides Korea with more wins
Suk Hee Shim of Korea won her second event of the weekend by finishing first in the second Ladies’ 1000 m. Shim took the lead from her teammate Alang Kim, who claimed second place. Valerie Maltais (CAN) finished third place. Fourth and fifth place went to Elise Christie (GBR) and Eun-Byul Lee (KOR).
On the Men’s side, Yi Ra Seo (KOR) claimed the win. He led all but one lap, and managed to fend off the challenges of the two Russian skaters behind him. Semen Elistratov (RUS) finished second while his teammate Ruslan Zakharov was third. Jack Whelbourne (GBR) was the other skater in the race and finished fourth.
Russia claims the Men’s 5000 m Relay
The results of the Ladies’ 3000 m Relay required the assistance of the photo finish to determine the winner. The review confirmed that Korea edged out China, to claim first place. A very close third place was Canada while Russia finished fourth.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was won by Russia who took the lead from China with two laps to go. China claimed second place in the end, followed by the United States in third place. Korea finished in fourth.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series continues next week in Montreal (CAN) on November 14-16, 2014.
For full results of the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2014/15 please refer tohttp://shorttrack.sportresult.comand/en/short-track-speed-skating
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series is available as a live stream on the ISU Skating Channel.  Please note that geoblocking may be required in certain territorieshttp://livemanager.eurovision.edgesuite.net/isu/index.htmland you can also follow
Follow the ISU on Twitter @ISU_Writer or on Facebook:https://www.facebook.com/ISUShortTrackSpeedSkating
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union