#ShortTrackSkating

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) celebrates her 500m victory with teammate Selma Poutsma in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
It is only two days old, but the Women’s ISU World Cup Short Track season is already shaping up to be an exhilarating one.
On Saturday at the Maurice-Richard Arena in Montreal,Hanne Desmet(BEL) andKristen Santos-Griswold(USA) were the most ruthless competitors, suggesting they will both be in the mix for ISU Crystal Globe honours.
On Sunday, however,Xandra Velzeboer(NED) andKim Gilli(KOR) — young racers with pedigrees already beyond their years, and boundless potential — took a gold medal each to show they’ll certainly be in contention, too.
Velzeboer is the fastest woman on ice at the moment. The 500m World Champion and world record holder is near-impossible to beat in a straight foot race over Short Track’s shortest distance.
In the Montreal 500m final, she cruised past the field with two and a half laps to go and turned on the afterburners. One of the few athletes to beat her in the sprint recently – teammateSelma Poutsma(NED) – couldn’t keep pace this time, but was nevertheless impressive as she took silver. Italian veteranMartina Valcepina(ITA) clung on for bronze.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) finished first ahead of Selma Poutsma and Martina Valcepina (ITA) in the 500m race in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
Velzeboer described the race as crazy.
“Selma started so fast, I had to give it all I had to follow her, but I stayed calm, and being relaxed meant I could make the pass. I was in control, so for the whole race I felt relaxed but alert. Yesterday I was disappointed with a crash, because I am fit and fast, so today was good.”
Velzeboer said she felt strong heading into the first World Cup.
“Training has been good over the summer, it went well, and the first competition internationally is always exciting. We can see what everyone has been up to, and what shape they’re in. We can definitely say that we are in shape. We already had the Dutch competitions, and now it’s really fun to be here. Training with Selma is better, because we push each other to get these kinds of speed.”
Velzeboer has put down a marker for the season, but isn’t looking too far ahead.
“I’m not thinking about (the ISU Crystal Globe) right now, it is the beginning of the season. I want to focus on the things I can improve on, as well as race tactics. My first quarterfinal didn’t go perfectly today, but it’s good to learn to win from many situations. That’s my focus point and highest priority, but if I continue this way, then of course the Globe becomes a target.”
Kim (KOR) stays coolest in 1000m (2) battle
The 1000m (2) was perhaps the most exciting final of the weekend in Montreal. Santos-Griswold and Desmet, buoyed by Saturday's glory, lined up confident, while crowd favoriteCourtney Sarault(CAN), second in the ISU Crystal Globe standings last term, also made the cut.
It looked like Santos-Griswold and Desmet were in a straight fight for first place for much of the race, generating extraordinary speed and each performing seamless passes.
But in the final lap, Kim came out of nowhere to maraud past the pair of them and snatch gold. The Belgian was second and the American third.

Kim Gilli (KOR) crosses the 500m finish line ahead of Hanne Desmet (BEL) and Kristen Santos-Griswold in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
“It is great to be a winner, it’s exciting and crazy. I am very happy. I knew that the others would be fighting at the front, so my plan was to remain calm. I managed a calm race and waited until the correct point to get past. I have trained well and feel ready for the season. I will try to be the top skater this year.”
Canada won the 3000m relay in style as the first ISU World Cup drew to a close, finishing ahead of the USA and Netherlands.

Danae Blais (CAN), left, celebrates her team's win in the 3000m relay Sunday in Montreal, Canada. © ISU
The second ISU World Cup of the season takes place at the same venue next weekend, Oct. 27 to 29.
For full entry lists and further information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
All Media Accreditations details and deadlines for the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series can be foundhere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2023/24:
Oct 20 - 22, 2023Montréal /CAN
Oct 27 - 29, 2023Montréal /CAN
Dec 08 - 10, 2023Beijing /CHN
Dec 15 - 17, 2023Seoul /KOR
Feb 09 - 11, 2024Dresden /GER
Feb 16 - 18, 2024Gdansk /POL

Stay connected with the ISU:
ISU Website:ISU News
ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
ISU Newsletter:Subscribe to our weeklyNewsletterto get the latest news and press releases
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrated its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters). In 2022, the series introduced an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which ultimately determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions are awarded with theISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union