Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
#ShortTrackSkating

Second Sarault gold and encouraging Chinese showing signal changing of the guard
The tall, powerfulCourtney Sarault(CAN) sent a message to the rest of the Short Track Speed Skating world as she secured a second ISU Four Continents gold medal in style on Saturday.
Just 24 hours after dominating the 1500m to win her first ever major title, the Canadian showed off a very different side of her skating to grab gold in the 1000m ahead of a delightedGong Li(CHN) withClaudia Gagnon(CAN) taking bronze.

Courtney Sarault (CAN) leads the 1000m on the way to her second gold medal of the Four Continents Short Track Championships.© ISU
After Sarault lost the lead toShim Suk Hee(KOR) with just three laps to go, it looked like the serial Korean World Cup winner was going to cruise to yet another title. But Sarault had other ideas.
“I was a bit too calm when I got to the front, I relaxed too much. But I am so proud to have come back. I punched [accelerated hard] three times in the last two laps. I wasn’t sure it was going to happen but I was 100% going to try,” the 22-year-old said.
Her unflinching efforts proved enough with a fearless inside pass on the final corner taking her past Shim by no more than a blade. The Korean was later penalised, leaving the way clear for Gong and Gagnon to join Sarault on the podium.
“That feels even sweeter than the first gold,” Sarault said. “It’s definitely the best finish I’ve ever done. I saw when I came over the line (that she was first) and I freaked out, I was screaming like crazy. I was like a bull going through.”
Chinese youngsters dazzle
The silver medal won by Gong formed part of a highly encouraging Four Continents for a China team, shorn of Olympic and world champions Ren Ziwei, Wu Dajing and Fan Kexin.
“At the beginning of the Championships I didn’t expect to win a medal but as they went on I felt like I could win,” said Gong, who also picked up mixed team relay silver.

1000m silver medalist Gong Li (CHN) also picked up silver in the mixed relay.© ISU
Given the men’s 5000m relay quartet stormed to gold on the final day andZhang Chutong(CHN) won women’s 500m bronze on Friday, Gong’s “excitement” at what her young team has done in Salt Lake City is more than understandable.
“For sure China is on the up,” Gong concluded.
Disappointed Choi ends on a high
In comparison double Olympic and four-time overall world championChoi Min Jeong(KOR) was not feeling quite so upbeat at the end of what has been a challenging championships for one of Short Track’s most revered figures.
“There have been some difficulties for me at this event. I need time to think how long I will continue skating,” said Choi, who did not start the 1000m heats after finishing third behind Sarault in the 1500m and failing to make the 500m final on Friday.
But it was not all doom and gloom for the skater who won all four individual titles at the 2020 Four Continents. She helped Republic of Korea to victory in the women's 3000m relay ahead of Canada and the USA.

Choi Min Jeong (left) had a difficult championships but could still celebrate relay gold with Korea teammates Kim, Lee and Shim.© ISU
“I am happy to finish with one gold,” Choi said. “Our new team members are trying really hard and I am enjoying helping them and I did learn a lot here,” the Korean added. “I was exhausted after the (Beijing 2022) Olympics but I am motivated by the (2023) World Championships in Korea.”
Before that the top women skaters will meet in Almaty, Kazakhstan for legs three and four of the ISU World Cup series, running 9-11 and 16-18 December 2022.
For all information about the ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships, please visit webpagehere.

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday races via their national broadcaster/channel. You will find the full list of available channels on the Where to watch webpagehere.
For countries where there are no broadcasters, the ISU will offer a live stream of the qualification and repechage rounds on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. Make sure to subscribe to receive live stream notifications.

ISU Short Track Speed Skating Championships events 2022/23:
Nov 10 - 12, 2022ISU Four Continents Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Salt Lake City (USA)
Jan 13 - 15, 2023ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Gdansk (POL)
Jan 27 - 29, 2023ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Dresden (GER)
Mar 10 - 12, 2023ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships – Seoul (KOR)
Skating updates delivered to your inbox