
#ShortTrackSkating
Steven Dubois(CAN) andPark Ji Won(KOR) have ensured that fans across the globe are in for a real treat when the 2023/24 ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating season comes to a close on Sunday.
Silver for Dubois in the first men’s 500m on Saturday in Gdansk, Poland, combined with Park’s surprising seventh place finish in the 1500m, means the Korean’s lead in the race to top the overall rankings is down to just 69 points, with only two individual events to come.

Steven Dubois (front) improved his chances of snatching the Crystal Globe with silver in the 500m in Gdansk, Poland © ISU
Park will attempt to hold off a charging Dubois by excelling in tomorrow’s 1000m, while the Canadian will not only be after victory in the second 500m but will also be aiming to grab the bonus points on offer for the best performing sprinter across the weekend.
But both men know they had their chances to wrap up the race for the Crystal Globe presented by Dunamu on a dramatic first day in Poland.
Fantastic final brings the drama
Throughout the men’s 1500m rounds Park looked like a champion in waiting. The man who proudly wears No.1 on his helmet dominated his quarter- and semi-finals. And with eight laps to go in the final, it looked like he was nailed on to grab another distance gold and extend what was then a 109-point rankings lead.
But as happens in this most exciting of sports, everything changed in an instant.
In the absence of injured 1500m standings leaderWilliamDandjinou(CAN) it was down to fellow CanadianPascal Dionto step up and help Dubois out and boy did he deliver.

Pascal Dion stormed to victory in the 1500m at the final World Cup in Gdansk, Poland © ISU

“He (Dion) raced so well, used some legs to get to the front and then slowed down a bit to keep some. Got passed by one guy but then passed him again. It was a textbook race, super impressive,” a grateful Dubois said of his teammate who flew past Park to grab gold.
Park’s compatriotJangSungwootook silver, and a delightedFrisoEmons(NED) grabbed a first ever World Cup bronze, despite crossing the finish line facing backwards on his bottom.

Friso Emons scooped 1500m bronze despite ending the race on the ice in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

A slightly confused Park was left wondering where it all went wrong.
“There were so many bumps and then I was seventh at the bell and I don’t know why,” Park said after trailing home last. “Now it’s all down to the 1000m. It’s exciting.”
Dion’s efforts not only gave Dubois a real boost in his Crystal Globe battle, but they also ensured Dandjinou ends the season as the top-ranked 1500m men’s Skater. So naturally, Dion is expecting his two mates to reward him with “a bottle of wine each”.
Before all of that Dubois will be hoping to go one better in Sunday’s 500m (2). The reigning Olympic 500m bronze medallist had looked certain to nail down an opening day win and the 100 points that go with it but just as Dion did in the long-distance race, so Park’s teammate Seo Yi Ra stepped up in the sprint. The Korean pipping Dubois on the line.
Seo Yi Ra (right) beat Steven Dubois (left) to gold in a dramatic 500m final in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

“It’s a bit hard to take,” Dubois said. “It puts me in a weird position for tomorrow. It’s kind of out of my hands for the Globe.
“If I’d won that and I’d won tomorrow I would have been assured to get the Crystal Globe but now it’s kind of out of my hands and I am just going to do whatever I can do and we’ll see.”
Another person who cannot wait to race again in the Hala Olivia Arena is Poland’s Lukasz Kuczynski.

Lukasz Kuczynski (right) celebrated 500m bronze in front of his home crowd in Gdansk, Poland© ISU

“It’s amazing, almost the whole of my family is in the stadium, that’s giving me a lot of positive energy,” Kuczynski said after grabbing bronze in the 500m, his second World Cup medal in a week.
“Of course, if I could take them everywhere with me of course I am paying for tickets and they are coming.”
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) ISU European Short Track Championships sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#ShortTrackSkating
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union