Europe's best Short Track Speed Skaters took to the ice this weekend in Malmö, Sweden for the 2013 ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships. Arianna Fontana of Italywon her third consecutive European Championships, while Dutch skater Freek Van der Wart earned his first ever European title. This is the second year running that a male skater from the Netherlands takes the title. Elise Christie of Great Britain was second while Jorien Ter Mors of the Netherlands finished third overall in the women's classification. On the men's side, reigning European champion Sjinkie Knegt finished second, while Vladimir Grigorev of Russia was third.A total of 25 countries were represented for this 3-day event, with the scheduling having the athletes compete in the 1500, 500, 1000 meters distances, with the top points earners after three events, competing in a 3000m Super Final.  The Championships ended with the Relay events.The weekend began with the 1500 meters events. In the ladies competition, Arianna Fontana began her quest to regain her title but finished second, behind 1500 meters winner Elise Christie of Great Britain. Charlotte Gilmartin, also of Great Britain, was third.On the men's side, Dutch skater Sjinkie Knegt took the win in the 1500 meters for a second consecutive year. His teammate Niels Kerstholt was second, while Yuri Confortala (Italy) was third.In the ladies500 meters event, Arianna Fontana took the win, edging out Jorien Ter Mors of the Netherlands. Third place finisher was Patrycja Maliszewska of Poland, earning her a first medal in a European Championships competition. This was Fontana's second consecutive win in this distance in as many ISU European Championships. In the Men's 500 meters, Vladimir Grigorev of Russia skated across the finish line in first place, ahead of Sjinkie Knegt and Victor An (RUS) who finished third.Elise Christie won her second event of the weekend in the 1000 meters event. Fontana was a close second, with Jorien Ter Mors finishing third. On the men's side, Freek Van der Wart won his first individual event of the Championships edging out Victor An. Semen Elistratov of Russia was third. Fontana's second place finish was enough for her to secure the European Championships title prior to racing Super Final, meanwhile the men's title was still up for grabs.Elise Christie gave Fontana a tough time by leading throughout the 3000m Super Final but she fell in the last lap giving Fontana the opportunity to finish first and winning her second distance of the weekend. Second place finish went to Jorien Ter Mors, which allowed her to secure her podium spot in these Championships. Third place finisher was Bernadett Heidum of Hungary. On the men's side, several skaters were still in contention for the overall Championships title entering the last event. In fact, Knegt was leading the overall classification by a single point, over his teammate Van der Wart. The win by Van der Wart in the 3000m Super Final was enough for him to secure the European title. Second place went to Knegt, while third place went to Elistratov.The weekend's racing concluded with the Relay, and for a third year in a row, the Netherlands took the win in the ladies event. Second place went to Germany, while Poland took third. In the Men's 5000 meters Relay, Russia finished ahead of defending European champions the Netherlands. Third place finisher was Hungary.Europe's best Short Track Speed Skaters will join the rest of the world as the Samsung ISU World Cup Short Track season resumes in Sochi, Russia on February 1-3, 2013 which will also be the back drop of the official test event for the Olympic Winter Games 2014.Resutls
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union