Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
Marianne St-Gelais of Canada claimed the win in the Ladies’ 500 m event, much to the pleasure of the home crowd. St-Gelais led the race from start to finish to earn her second individual medal of the weekend. Meanwhile, Natalia Maliszewska (POL) earned her first career World Cup medal by finishing in second place. Sofia Prosvirnova (RUS) took the third podium spot, while Elise Christie (GBR) did not finish the race.
On the Men’s side, Dajing Wu (CHN) won the 500 m event in a dominating fashion, leading the race from start to finish. On his heel was fan favourite Charle Cournoyer (CAN) who crossed the line in second place, ahead of Se Yeong Park (KOR). Daan Breeuwsma (NED) finished in fourth place. This was a very close as all four skaters finished within two tenths of each other.
Suk Hee Shim of Korea won her second event of the weekend by finishing first in the second Ladies’ 1000 m. Shim took the lead from her teammate Minjeong Choi with one lap to go. While Choi finished in second place, Jiaying Tao (CHN) finished in third place. Fourth and fifth places went to Veronique Pierron (FRA) and Kim Boutin (CAN).
On the Men’s side, Charles Hamelin (CAN) claimed the win, while his teammate Samuel Girard finished in second place. The two Canadian skaters dominated the race, exchanging the lead during the race. Semen Elistratov (RUS) completed the podium with a third place finish. John-Henry Krueger (USA) finished in fourth, while Kazuki Yoshinaga (JPN) finished in fifth.
The Ladies’ 3000 m Relay was won by Korea who led the last third of the race, after taking the lead from China. Unfortunately, China received a penalty and was kept off the podium. Canada, who hold the lead early on in the race, finished in second place, followed by Russia.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was won by China who took the lead from the Netherlands with less than ten laps to go. The Netherlands held onto second place in the end, followed by Hungary. Korea finished in fourth despite being in the lead midway through the race. This was a tightly contested race, with all four teams crossing the finishing line within half a second.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series continues next week in Toronto (CAN) on November 6-8, 2015. This will be the first time the series makes a stop in this city.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox