
#ShortTrackSkating

Lyu Wanyu led a dominant performance from China at the Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

China and Republic of Korea dominated proceedings at the first-everISU Junior World Cup Short Track Speed Skatingat theElfstedenhalin Leeuwarden (NED). The two Short Track powerhouses won four golds each in the inaugural competition for the world’s best young racers.
China leads the way in women’s races
The event got underway on Saturday with the women’s 1000m (1). China is hugely ambitious in Short Track, with their senior team stepping up over recent seasons.It sent a team to the Netherlands brimming with talent and got its reward in the first final of the day.
Lyu Wanyu (CHN) showed an astonishing turn of speed in the final couple of laps to take gold in 1:31.488, whileSong Jiarui(CHN), already excelling at senior level, demonstrated a brilliant combination of technical excellence and raw power to finish second.Japan will also have been pleased with their outing: Rina Shimada (JPN) caught the eye as she skated to the bronze medal.

Lyu Wanyu won the opening race of the ISU Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

Republic of Korea struck back in the 1500m. Displaying their trademark mix of racecraft savvy and technical perfection, Oh Songmi (KOR) took the gold in 2:24.228, with rapid teammate Yu Sumin (KOR) just behind.China completed an excellent day with Zhang Jianing (CHN) winning the bronze medal with an impressive skate.

Oh Songmi celebrates after winning 1500m gold at the Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

On Sunday, Zhang (CHN) continued where she left off, winning the 500m in 44.280, ahead of Canada’s Victoria Jean-Baptiste in second, and Song in third.Showing blistering speed, Zhang looks like a prospect that could be in the senior Chinese squad sooner rather than later.

Zhang Jianing (centre) won a thrilling women's 500m at the Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

The Chinese sealed their domination of the women’s events in the 1000m (2), which was won by Li Jinzi (CHN) in fine style (1:33.361) – beating competition from Yu and Oh of Korea, in second and third.

Li Jinzi added another gold for China in the 1000m (2) at the Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

Korea reign supreme in men’s races
The men’s action followed a similar pattern to the women’s. China and Korea meant business, and that was personified byLiKun(CHN).
Already a member of the China senior relay team with some impressive individual results on the ISU World Cup tour, he turned on the style to grab victory in Saturday’s 1000m (1) by a margin, crossing the line in 1:26.539.His teammate Zhang Tianyi (CHN) also looked elite level as he took silver; while Han Byeongchan (KOR) battled well to get bronze. Justoutside the medals was the ever-improving Peter Groseclose of the Philippines, who came fourth, narrowly missing out on his nation’s first Short Track medal.

Li Kun stormed to victory in the 1000m (1) at the Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

It was Korea, however, that would rule the roost in the rest of the men’s events. Rim Jongun (KOR) put on a tactical masterclass to take 1500m gold in 2:13.954 – followed closely by a trio of Chinese skaters.Lyu Yanpeng (CHN) was the best of them in second, with Zhang Bohao (CHN) getting bronze and Zhang Zixia (CHN) pipped into fourth.The all-Asia final – three Chinese, two Koreans and two Japanese – underlined the region’s supremacy at this level.

Rim Jongun's brilliance earned gold in the 1500m at the Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

On Sunday, Shin Dong Min (KOR), who dazzled at last season’s ISU Junior World Championships, winning two silvers, put in a bustling performance in the 500m (41.085) to take his first gold at this level. Zhang pocketed another silver, while France’s hotly tipped prospect, Tawan Thomas, sealed the bronze.

Shin Dong Min was victorious in the final race of the Junior World Cup Short Track in Leeuwarden, Netherlands © ISU

Rim (KOR) then secured his second title of the weekend to finish as the pick of this promising coterie of Koreans.He was supreme in the 1000m (2) finishing in 1:26.490, well ahead of a pair of promising Dutch skaters on what was otherwise a quiet weekend for the Netherlands: Stan Rijksen (NED) got silver, and Bas Van Der Valk (NED) the bronze.
Overall, the European and North American racers will look to improve in next weekend’s repeat of this meeting, at the same venue – but that is never an easy task in Junior Short Track, where technique tends to be taught earlier to the Asian racers.
Round two next weekend
This new event was the first of two Junior World Cup competitions, with a repeat fixture on December 2-3.
A third Junior World Cup will follow in February 2024 (venue to be confirmed), before the Junior World Championships in Gdansk on February 22-25.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union