Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union


#ShortTrackSkating
Suzanne Schulting(NED) was always going to receive the first ever women’s Crystal Globe trophy in Dordrecht, Netherlands on Sunday, as the 25-year-old Dutchwoman had already sealed the crucial points at the World Cup meeting in Dresden, Germany last weekend.

Suzanne Schulting (NED) wins Crystal Globe ©International Skating Union (ISU)
But in the final event of the season, at her homecoming party in front of a boisterous crowd, Schulting was as determined as ever to add more silverware to her tally. To her own disappointment, however, the two-time World Champion had to settle for bronze in the 1000m (2) on Sunday.

Courtney Sarault (CAN) wins 1000m (2) gold to leave Schulting (NED, right) disappointed. @ISU
Schulting had the lead with two laps remaining but was overhauled byCourtney Sarault(CAN) after an excellent inside pass and could not regain the top spot.Kim Gilli(KOR) also outstretched Schulting and claimed silver.
Having secured a whopping total of eight individual World Cup gold medals, Schulting still remains the undeniable No.1 this season.
She comfortably sits atop the overall rankings with 1062 points, a full 286 points ahead of second-placed Sarault, withHanne Desmet(BEL) ending up in third – and thus Schulting received the glittering new prize after the Relay finals.
“I just missed that last bit of power in the 1000m,” Schulting said. “That’s not something I’m happy with. But at the same time I can tell myself I’ve had a fantastic season. I won the Crystal Globe by such a big margin.
The Crystal Globe trophy 🏆 is here and will be awarded on Sunday 😍#ShortTrackSkatingpic.twitter.com/okwmnYJ4no
“It’s just that I put myself to such a high standard. That’s why I feel disappointed with not being able to win an individual gold medal this weekend.
“I realize I need to be in a better shape for the upcoming World Championships but I’m sure I’ll be able to get things right in the next few weeks.”
Sarault meanwhile bounced back from a frustrating opening day in Dordrecht, after she finished just shy of the podium in fourth place of the 1500m.
“Today I came in with an extra fight in me just because yesterday I feel I missed out on a medal,” the Canadian said. “I really wanted to get myself in the right situation this time.
“It’s the end of the competition so everyone was probably feeling a little bit sore but I switched my gear in the race and it felt really good actually. I didn’t think I was going to but I did.
“I knew I wanted to be not totally at the back but when the pace picked up, I had to get myself going as well. Of course I screamed when I crossed the finish line. Winning here as well with all the fans is really something crazy. They give everyone energy. I was just so happy.”
Velzeboer delights home crowd
It wasXandra Velzeboer(NED) who ultimately sent the Optisport Sportboulevard into raptures by winning gold in the 500m as the World Cup competition concluded.

Xandra Velzeboer (NED) delights the home crowd with victory in the 500m. @ANP/Getty Images
The 21-year-old, who is the reigning World Champion in the women’s sprint distance, got off to a blistering start and did not relinquish her lead to continue her rise to the top of Short Track.Kim Boutin(CAN) claimed silver, with compatriotRikki Doak(CAN) taking bronze.
“It's incredible to win here,” a smiling Velzeboer said. “Boutin started from the fourth position and I was able to take advantage of this when going through the first corner.  I knew I had to go full out and give it my all from there. That went well.
“I felt like I had some sort of gap. That allowed me to focus not too much on what was going on behind me. Before the race, I was already feeling very excited about this final but with the support of the crowd, I got another boost to bring this gold medal home.
“It’s been a really hectic season, so I’m happy we get to take some time off now and then start with the preparations for the World Championships.
“I can’t wait to battle it out again with Boutin, but Suzanne [Schulting] will probably also be in the mix in Korea. This win shows me I can defend my title."
Overall World Cup season champion Canada claimed in the 3000m relay, ahead of Hungary and China.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay

World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay

World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
World Ranking Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

Skating updates delivered to your inbox