Yu Bin Lee (KOR) wins the Super Final to clinch the overall title
The final day of the championships began with Yu Bin Lee (KOR) leading the overall classification by a margin of one point over her teammate Whi Min Seo. After the Ladies 1000 m final, Lee extended her lead by securing the win in the distance. However, her teammate Seo finished second in the distance and therefore the final race was going to determine the overall championship winner. The two Korean skaters had broken the Junior World Record in the distance, with Seo clocking the fastest time at 1.28.745. Sofia Prosvirnova (RUS) finished in third place in the 1000 m distance.
Entering the Ladies 1500m Super Final, Lee had 70 points, 14-points ahead of her teammate Seo. Sofia Prosvirnova, who was sitting in third place could finish second overall at best. She did have to keep an eye on Jinyu Li (CHN), Petra Jaszapati (HUN) and Soo Lim Han (KOR) if she was wanted to secure a podium spot in the overall classification. In the end, Yu Bin Lee took the win ahead of her teammate Han, to clinch the overall title. Whi Min Seo finished in fifth to secure second place overall while Prosvirnova finished in fourth place, to clinch the third and last podium spot for the overall title. It’s important to note that in the Ladies competition, a Junior World Record was also broken in the 500 m distance: Petra Jaszapati (HUN) skated a 43.550 this weekend.
Shaoang Liu (HUN) clinches title with three individual distance wins
In the Men’s competition, championship leader Shaoang Liu (HUN) clinched the overall title with his third win in as many distances, in the 1000 m final. He led much of the race and managed to fend off pressure from second-placed Si Un Kim (KOR). Pengyu Wang (CHN) finished in third place in the distance. Both Kazuki Yoshinaga (JPN) and Alexander Shulginov (RUS), who were ranked second and third place overall entering the final day of competition, did not manage to score championship points in the 1000 m distance. Thomas Insuk Hong (USA), who was tied with Shulginov for third place, scored two points in the distance, which allowed him to move closer to second-placed Yoshinaga.
Entering the Men’s 1500 m Super Final with the overall title clinched, Liu could race with less pressure on his shoulders. However, Yoshinaga (second), Hong (third), Kim (fourth) and Shulginov (fifth) were separated five points with the second and third place in the overall classification still up for grabs. Si Un Kim (KOR) took the win in the 1500 m Super Final, allowing him to clinch second place in the overall classification. Kazuki Yoshinaga (JPN) finished in third place to secure the final podium spot in the overall classification. Meanwhile, Shaoang Liu finished in second place in the race to close the championships with 127 points.
China (Ladies) and Korea (Men) clinch the relay titles
China defended its title of Ladies World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Relay Champions by winning today’s Ladies 3000 m Relay final. The team finished ahead of Russia (second) who was followed by Japan. On the Men’s side, Korea dominated the 3000 m Relay final, leading the race from start to finished to claim the win and breaking the Junior World Record for the distance. China finished in second place while the United States finished in third place. The American team benefited from a penalty awarded to Japan during the race.
Upcoming ISU Short Track Speed Skating events include the continuation of the ISU World Cup 2016/17 series which resumes in Dresden, Germany from February 3-5, 2017.
For full results of the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2017 please refer tohttp://shorttrack.sportresult.com
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union