#ShortTrackSkating

It was a thrilling day for the Netherlands as the Women’s team capped of the fourth ISU World Cup meet in style.Suzanne Schulting(NED) demonstrated her power to win the 1000m andYara van Kerkhof(NED) led a Dutch one-two withMichelle Velzeboer(NED) in the 500m (2).
This was Van Kerkhof’s first individual gold medal in her storied senior career, having always been an integral part of the Women’s Relay team. The 32-year-old now found herself leading the sprint in a frantic A Final that included three restarts.
The race took an even more dramatic turn as Van Kerkhof was the only racer who crossed the line on two skates after an almighty collision in the final metres.
With the rest of the pack sprawled across the ice, Michelle Velzeboer (NED) took second, withPetra Jaszapati(HUN) in third to claim bronze.

Yara van Kerkhof (right) led a Dutch one-two with Michelle Velzeboer (left) in the 500m (2). © ISU
Van Kerkhof could barely believe what she had accomplished moments after the race.
“It still feels a bit strange,” she said. “I’m not the strongest up front and it was new for me to simply be in the lead all the time.
“I tried not to think about the outcome of the race and instead focused on what I had to do. That worked out pretty well.
“I’m really enjoying this moment. It’s also so nice to be on the podium together with Michelle, who really deserved to be rewarded for all her hard work. Her skating has been incredible this weekend.”
Velzeboer, 19, captured her first World Cup medal in her debut season as a Senior. She received a big hug from her older sisterXandra Velzeboer(NED), who is also part of the Dutch Short Track team, after the race.
“I’m really happy I was able to prove myself on this stage today,” Velzeboer junior said. “My sister is still on another level of course but I can only go up.”
“I actually had a feeling before the race that I could win a medal but you never know what’s going to happen of course. I definitely didn’t expect this crazy final. I’m so excited about getting silver.”
Super Suzanne ends World Cup year on a high
A day after fighting offNatalia Maliszewska(POL) to win gold in the 500m (1), Schulting (NED) turned on the jets once more to triumph in the 1000m.
Schulting led from the first corner and never looked back. Her speed proved too much as she edged her skate in front to cross the line in first place.Kristen Santos-Griswold(USA) had to settle for silver, withAnna Seidel(GER) taking bronze.

Eyes on the prize: Suzanne Schulting was in a class of her own in the 1000m © ISU
“To see my teammates finish one-two in their final was always going to be a boost for me,” Schulting said. “I was in the lead for all nine laps, so I just had to make sure to finish strong.”
“I feel relieved, and happy as well. It’s been a long two weeks. I wasn’t feeling well last week and had to do a lot of races, so I’m glad it’s over now.”
Schulting's strong efforts across the first four World Cup events have placed her first in the overall World Cup classification of the Women’s competition.
“That’s something I’m very pleased with,” she said. “I want to win everything there’s to win. I keep it in the back of my mind for sure.”
Sunday’s racing concluded with the 3000m Relay. The Republic of Korea snatched gold with Canada claiming silver. Hungary crossed the line in third to bag bronze.

Republic of Korea (back centre) won the 3000m Relay by less than a second from Canada. © ISU
Find out who is in the running for the inaugural Crystal Globe Trophy
Based on the Overall World Cup Classification, the current leaders for the Crystal Globe Trophy arePark Ji Won(KOR) in the Men’s competition and Suzanne Schulting (NED) in the Women’s field.
Park is in the lead with 668 points, followed by rivalling compatriotHong Kyung Hwan(KOR) with 584 points and Steven Dubois (CAN) with 458 points.
Schulting comfortably tops the standings with 712 points followed byCourtney Sarault(CAN, 522) andKim Gilli(KOR, 514).
The World Cup series resumes in Dresden, Germany next year, 3-5 February.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union