#ShortTrackSkating

Velzeboer and Schulting secure spectacular revenge but Koreans up for the fight
Xandra Velzeboer(NED) andSuzanne Schulting(NED) recovered in style from their opening day disappointment at the ISU World Cup Short Track event in Salt Lake City. But the Dutch fliers will head home knowing they are unlikely to have it all their own way this season.
Velzeboer and Schulting leave the Utah Olympic Oval with identical records. Both set world records, both won individual golds, both got penalized in individual finals and both fell in the relays.
Overall, it was more than enough to leave them comfortably clear at the top of the ISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy – Velzeboer leads her storied compatriot by just four points – but both admitted to mixed feelings.
“It wasn’t nice but I tried to learn something from it,” Velzeboer said of the penalty she received in the women’s 500m(1) on Saturday.
She certainly did learn from it, taking no chances in Sunday’s 500m(2) final. The 21-year-old led from the first corner and once Poland’s sprint specialist Natalia Maliszewska fell on the second lap, Velzeboer had clear air between her and the rest of the field.

In the zone. Xandra Velzeboer continued her flying start to the World Cup season with gold in the 500m (2). © International Skating Union
Four-time overall world champion Choi Min Jeong (KOR) took silver and without yet looking at her all-conquering best, the Korean lies third in the overall standings, just ahead of teammateKim Gilli.
“It was kind of revenge today,” Velzeboer admitted. “I really showed my qualities and how strong I am at this distance right now. I was nervous today, I really wanted to show my skills.”
Her younger sister, Michelle Velzeboer, in her first full season on the Dutch team, was suitably impressed.
“How she skates so fast is crazy,” the younger Velzeboer said. “We are not yet competitive, she is really faster than me now but I want to do what she is doing. Hopefully it won’t be too long.”
Koreans take relay gold as Choi starts to shine
The duo teamed up in the final of the women’s 3000m relay but Velzeboer senior lipped her own ankles when leading to leave the way open for Choi and her Korean teammates – including 18-year-old breakout star Kim – to secure another gold. Canada took silver with Italy finishing in bronze medal position.

Teen sensation Kim Gilli helped inspire Republic of Korea to 3000m relay gold. © International Skating Union
“I am proud of the girls, the Koreans are always so strong,” Canada’s Courtney Sarault said.
The five-time world championship medal winner, who took an extended summer break, won a second silver in the 1000m, behind a familiar foe.
“She is really so good,” Sarault said of 1000m winner Schulting. “It’s OK losing to her. It’s not that bad but next time I have to figure out how to pass her.”
It is a conundrum many have spent years grappling unsuccessfully with. The three-time Olympic champion was clearly in no mood to give up another World Cup gold medal, having been penalized in the 500m(1) on Saturday. She took the lead after just three laps of Sunday’s 1000m final and powered away from the field.

Suzanne Schulting followed up two World Cup wins in Montreal last weekend with 1000m gold in Salt Lake. © International Skating Union
“It’s been a really long two and a half weeks,” said Schulting, who was emotional after securing her third individual gold of the season’s opening two World Cup weekends.
“I managed it really well today, I am just so happy. I skated three different races in the quarterfinals, the semifinals and then the final. I am really happy I could do that and with how my legs feel.”
The World Cup series resumes in Almaty, Kazakhstan 9-11 December.
For all information about the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series, please visit webpagehere.
World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

About ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series
TheISU World Cup Short Track Speed SkatingSeries celebrates its 25thanniversary in 2022. Launched in 1997/98, the Series usually consists of six events (four during an Olympic season) that take place in North America, Europe and Asia.
The competitions have a single distance character across nine distances (500, 1000 and 1500 meters for Women and Men, Women 3000 meters Team Relay, Men 5000 meters Team Relay and a Mixed Gender Relay over 2000 meters), and to mark its 25thanniversary, the series now also includes an Overall World Classification based on an accumulation of points from all individual distances which will determine a Combined Season Ranking and a Season Champion in the Women and Men categories. These Champions will be awarded with the newISU World Cup Short Track Crystal Globe Trophy.
Each competition is held over three days (day 1 is dedicated to all Qualifying Rounds, days 2 and 3 consist of the last Qualifying Rounds followed by the World Cup sessions). For the Mixed Gender Relay Teams (2 Women & 2 Men), the Women 3000 meters Relay races and Men 5000 meters Relay races a maximum of four Skaters shall compete and must belong to the same ISU Member. For further information please visitisu.org.

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union