The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2014/15 resumed today in Shanghai, China Montreal with the Ladies and Men’s 1000 m, second 500 m and the Relay events.
Hongshuang Li (CHN) and Dmitry Migunov (RUS) claim wins in the 500 m
The Chinese skaters dominated the second Ladies’ 500 m event with three of them in final. Hongshuang Li led the race from start to finish to claim the win ahead of her teammate Yue Lin. Kassandra Bradette (CAN) earned her first individual World Cup medal with a third place finish. Yang Liu (CHN) finished fourth. Kexin Fan (CHN) maintains her lead in the World Cup classification for the distance, while Yue Lin moves into second place. Marianne St-Gelais is in third place overall.
On the Men’s side, Dmitry Migunov (RUS) won the event, which was his second win of the season in 500 m distance. Migunov never looked back after a solid start, to finish ahead of John-Henry Krueger (USA). William Preudhomme (CAN) finished in third place, earning his first individual World Cup medal. Jingnan Shi (CHN) finished in fourth place, while Yoon-Gy Kwak (KOR) was given a penalty at the end of the race. Migunov extends his lead in the World Cup classification for the distance while John-Henry Krueger moves into second place overall, ahead of Yoon-Gy Kwak.
Minjeong Choi (KOR) and Charles Hamelin win their respective 1000 m events
The Ladies 1000 m event was once again won by a skater from Korea: this time, it was Minjeong Choi who crossed the finish line first, in front of her teammate Suk Hee Shim. Minjeong Choi took the lead from her teammate with two laps to go from Yutong Han (CHN) who led most of the race. Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) finished in third place, while Yutong Han ended in fourth place. The World Cup classification for the distance is led by Shim, followed by Choi and St-Gelais.
On the Men’s side, Charles Hamelin (CAN) claimed the win, having spent most of the race in front. He finished ahead of Sjinkie Knegt (NED) and Shaolin Sandor Liu (HUN) who claimed second and third place respectively. The World Cup classification leader for the distance, Da Woon Sin, maintains his lead with a fourth place finish. Semen Elistratov (RUS) and Sjinkie Knegt complete the top-three ranking in the World Cup classification.
Korean domination in the Relay events continue
Korea took its third win of the season in the Ladies’ 3000 m Relay and further extends its lead in the World Cup classification for the distance. China was a very close second, while Canada narrowly edged out Russia for third place.
The Men’s 5000 m Relay was also won by Korea, who also extends its lead in the World Cup classification. Netherlands earned the second podium position while Canada earned the third spot. The United States finished in fourth, after falling being the top three teams with ten laps to go.
The ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series continues in Seoul (KOR) on December 19-21, 2014.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union