#ShortTrackSkating


They say the best should be saved for last and forDenis Nikisha(KAZ) it all came true in Almaty on the closing day of the fourth ISU World Cup event of the season. Nikisha marked his sensational victory in the 500m (2) with a proposal on the ice, and his girlfriend said yes.
“This is the best day of my life,” Nikisha, 27, said after he had presented an engagement ring to his wife-to-be. “When I woke up this morning there were only two words on my mind: ‘gold’ and ‘yes’.
“I made this plan a month ago already. Even if I wouldn’t have made the podium in this race, I’d have asked her to marry me. My dream has come true.”
Une publication partagée par ISU Speed Skating (@isuspeedskating)
Love was indeed in the air in the Halyk Arena on Sunday, with Nikisha being roared on by an enthusiastic home crowd as he secured his first gold medal in a World Cup race since the 2016/2017 season.
It was Nikisha’s final opportunity to reach the top step of the podium on home ice. He bagged bronze in the 500m (1) on Saturday and took silver in the sprint distance a week earlier across this double-header of action in Kazakhstan’s biggest city.
This time he managed to pull off victory. Nikisha took the lead with two laps to go following a pass onStijn Desmet(BEL) and used a series of quick steps to defend his position at the front, with Jang Sungwoo (KOR) taking silver ahead of Desmet.

Denis Nikisha (KAZ) wowed his home crowd with victory in the 500m (2) then proposed to his girlfriend © ISU
“The ice was so bad today,” Nikisha said. “It was so soft. I had only once chance to pass and I did it. After so many years of not winning gold in the 500m, this is just amazing.
“I just want to say ‘thank you’ to all my fans. It was incredible to race here, seeing all these young kids in the stands. I hope they feel inspired now. The big show has arrived to Kazakhstan.”
Park powers to gold
The 1000m had a more familiar feel to it, as the all-conqueringPark Ji Won(KOR) added another World Cup gold to this tally; his third win across all distances this weekend.
The 26-year-old spent most of the race in the middle of the pack but made an superb inside pass onSteven Dubois(CAN) andRoberts Kruzbergs(LAT) in the entry of the final corner to secure yet another top spot.
Dubois captured his second medal of the weekend, adding silver to the 500m (1) silver he got on Saturday. Kruzbergs took bronze.
“I had a good start, wanted to be in the lead and control the race,” the Canadian said after the medal ceremony. “Then Kruzbergs passed me but I used a little bit of a gap to gain speed again and regain my position up front.”
“I wanted to kind of slow down a bit but Roberts was always coming inside, so I had to use way more energy than I anticipated. I kind of ran out of legs with two laps to go and just didn’t turn enough on the last corner, so Park passed us both.”

Park (KOR, left) leads home Dubois (CAN, centre) and Kruzbergs (LAT, right) in an exciting 1000m © ISU
Dubois admitted it was always going to be a “hard race” against Park, who is the leader of the overall World Cup classification in the Men’s field.
“You just have to be perfect everywhere, because you know Park is gonna find a gap. He didn’t really do anything in the whole race, so he had the legs. That’s why I kinda wanted to keep my legs a bit more in the middle part but I couldn’t.
“I’m super happy with what I did this weekend. I just gained some confidence that I lost a bit over the past weeks. I thought I should’ve been able to do it a bit more consistently in the past two World Cups but it didn’t happen that way.
“I now actually have a silver in every distance and a gold in the 500m across the season. I know I can do anything in every distance and that’s super meaningful to me. I’m excited for what’s to come.”
Kruzbergs returned to the World Cup podium for the first time since the season opener in Montreal, where he won Latvia’s first Short Track medal by securing gold in the 1000m (1).
“I feel really good that I could finally prove myself again and show that I can compete for a medal,” he said. “These guys are really amazing skaters with a lot of experience.”
“I’m super happy that I can be on the ice with them, compete against them and even end up on the podium. I’m glad it all worked out this time.”
Canada wins Relay gold with clutch finish
The 5000m Relay was won by Canada who narrowly beat The Netherlands. Similar to last week’s A final,Jordan Pierre-Gilles(CAN) came in clutch with an inside pass in the final corner to cross the line first and secure gold for his team. Japan had to settle for bronze.

Canada win 5000m Men's Relay gold after a thrilling pass on the final corner © ISU
Republic of Korea had already demonstrated their dominance in the 2000m Mixed Relay on Saturday as they bagged their third ISU World Cup gold in this event this season. The quartet of Kim Gilli, Lim Yong Jin, Park Ji Won and Shim Suk Hee fought off silver medalists Belgium, and Poland who claimed bronze.
Find out who is in the running for the inaugural Crystal Globe Trophy
Based on the Overall World Cup Classification, the current leaders for the Crystal Globe Trophy are Park Ji Won (KOR) in the Men’s competition andSuzanne Schulting(NED) in the Women’s field.
Park is in the lead with 668 points, followed by rivalling compatriotHong Kyung Hwan(KOR) with 584 points and Steven Dubois (CAN) with 458 points.
Schulting comfortably tops the standings with 712 points followed byCourtney Sarault(CAN, 522) andKim Gilli(KOR, 514).
The World Cup series resumes in Dresden, Germany next year, 3-5 February.

World Cup Classification - Men
Overall World Cup Classification
Men 500m
Men 1000m
Men 1500m
Men 5000m Relay
World Cup Classification - Women
Overall World Cup Classification
Women 500m
Women 1000m
Women 1500m
Women 3000m Relay
World Cup Classification – Mixed Relay
Mixed Relay

Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the Saturday and Sunday afternoon (local time) World Cup sessions via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on the Where to watch webpagehere.

ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series events 2022/23:
Oct 28 - 30, 2022Montréal /CAN
Nov 04 - 06, 2022Salt Lake City /USA
Dec 09 - 11, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Dec 16 - 18, 2022Almaty /KAZ
Feb 03 - 05, 2023Dresden /GER
Feb 10 - 12, 2023Dordrecht /NED

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union