The fourth stop of the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating Series 2014/15 resumed today in Seoul (KOR) with the Ladies and Men’s 1000 m, the Ladies 3000 m and the Men’s 1500 m events.
Yutong Han of China led from start to finish to take the win in the Ladies 1000 m. She finished ahead of Marianne St-Gelais of Canada, while Elise Christie of Great Britain placed third. World Cup classification leader, Suk Hee Shim (KOR) finished fourth, given her enough point to hold onto the lead.
On the Men’s side, Dajing Wu of China claimed the win in the 1000 m event. Dajing Wu took the lead from Yoon-Gy Kwak (KOR) with two laps to go; Kwak crossed the finish line in second place. Sjinkie Knegt of the Netherlands finished in third while Charles Hamelin (CAN) finished fourth. The third place finish allows Sjinkie Knegt to take the lead in the World Cup classification for the distance.
The Ladies 3000 m final saw Korea take three of the top four positions. Minjeong Choi took the win, to the cheers of the local spectators. Jiaying Tao of China finished second, while Eun-Byul Lee of Korea finished third. Do Hee Noh (Korea) and Namasthee Harris-Gauthier (CAN) completed the top five with fourth and fifth place respectively.
Da Woon Sin (KOR) continues his domination of the 1500 m event, by claiming his third win of the season. Da Woon Sin won a tough race, which saw eight skaters at the start line. Dequan Chen of China finished in second place, while Se Yeong Park of Korea finished third. Sin extends his lead in the World Cup classification for the distance, with Charles Hamelin (CAN) in second and Se Yeong Park in third.
Racing resumes tomorrow with the Ladies and Men 500 m, the Ladies 1500 m and the Men’s 3000 m. The teams advancing in Ladies 3000m Relay final are Korea, Russia, China and Hungary; in the Men’s 5000m Relay, Netherlands, Canada, Korea and China will be competing in the final.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union