#ShortTrackWorldTour

Choi Min Jeong (KOR) won 1000 m gold Saturday at the second ISU Short Track World Tour event in Montreal © ISU

If last weekend’s inauguralISU Short Track World Tourevent was all about young racers – there wasn’t an individual gold medallist over 23 in the men’s or women’s field – part two of the battle of Montreal saw some veterans show they’ve still got it.
Choi Min Jeongof the Korean White Tigers is hardly a pensioner at 26, but she won her first overall world championship nine and a half years ago. It would be valid to ask whether, after taking a season off, she’d be able to immediately defeat a brilliant new wave of racers.
The 1000 m final at the Maurice Richard Arena answered the question. Choi was at her lethal best against a classy pack to take her first gold at this level in more than a year and a half.
Meanwhile,Xandra Velzeboerof the Dutch Lions impressed again to stay atop theISU Crystal Globestandings, 34-year-oldArianna Fontanaof the Italian Gladiators was among the medalists after returning from a sabbatical last year, and Canada’s women grabbed an impressive relay triumph.
'The year off was good for me': Four-time overall world champion Choi is back
The women’s 1000 m was highly competitive, with ISU Crystal Globe holderKim Gilliof the Korean White Tigers, Choi, Velzeboer, Fontana and the ever-improvingCorinne Stoddardof the USA Eagles lined up in the final. The world champion in the distance,Kristen Santos-Griswoldof the USA Eagles, was eliminated in the quarterfinals.
Choi duelled with Velzeboer before putting in a precise pass with two laps to go. She held on for her first gold at an ISU World Cup since Dresden in February 2023. The Dutch Lion was second, with Stoddard third.
Choi Min Jeong (KOR) won her first gold medal at this level since February 2023 in Dresden, Germany © ISU
It was an improvement on a promising return last weekend, Choi said.
“I saw my potential on the first tour, and thought I could do better on this second event.The year off was good for me. I did spend a lot of time resting and I spent lots of time with my family. It definitely helped me recuperate. I changed up my training plan. I feel better for it. It is great for me to be back racing, against girls like Kristen andHanne (Desmet)and Arianna, who I have been racing for many years. I’m very happy to be participating and getting a medal after a long time.”
Velzeboer, always a favorite when she lines up in a 500 m final, was delighted to make the podium again in the longer distance.
Xandra Velzeboer (NED) took 1000 m silver on Saturday and is first in the ISU Crystal Globe standings © ISU
“The day just went really well,” Velzeboer said. “Last week I had more tension, wanting to qualify. Today I was in the flow, enjoying it a lot. It was just really fun," she said. “As for the final, so much happened. But I’m happy to be back in the A final again and be able to fight for the gold. In the 1000 m I got stronger this summer. Training's paid off.”
Stoddard is also finding new belief.
“This year, my plan is to not back down from the competition, because I know I can battle with them now,” Stoddard said. “I like to race in the pack, I’m gaining experience every race. I grew up watching Min Jeong and Arianna as a little girl. Racing them is something special. You learn from the tracks they are doing, memorizing them, which opportunities I can take depending on their tracks. It was a very aggressive race, and at the end I still had some legs.”
Corinne Stoddard (USA) took 1000 m bronze Saturday in Montreal and is gaining confidence in her ability to compete against the veterans © ISU
Canadian Ice Maples secure relay glory
Canada’s men have been delighting fans at Maurice Richard Arena during the first two stops of the ISU Short Track World Tour, but the female Ice Maples weren't going to let them have all the headlines.
The Canadians prevailed in a raucous 3000 m Relay, in which they exchanged leads regularly with the Italian Gladiators, Chinese Loongs and Korean White Tigers before local heroKim Boutinbrought it home on the last lap. Italy finished second and China third.
“It was exciting and action-packed,” said team memberRikki Doak.  “The arena was so loud, you could hardly hear. My ears were ringing at the end. But we stayed calm and stuck to the plan. We had trust in each other. I had confidence while I was racing. We beat some really good teams, because we trust each other. It makes us a good unit."
Kim Boutin celebrates after securing gold for Canada in the 3000 m Relay Saturday in Montreal © ISU
Doak also enjoyed watching Boutin secure the win.
“It’s exciting watching Kim bring it home. She’s an idol. I want to be like her. It’s amazing cheering her on. I learn from her every day. Every day you push yourself, and if you do, it will pay off. The boys are doing well at the moment, so it is good to share it out. Team Canada is on a high, so hopefully they can match us tomorrow in their relay.”
Fontana marked her return to the tour with a silver, having raced in a different discipline in Germany last weekend.
“Last weekend I skated long track, this weekend short track. I wanted to see how that feels,” she said. “It’s a lot of races back to back, but you just have to move forward.”
Arianna Fontana (ITA) collected a silver medal on her return to Short Track after competing in long track last weekend in Germany @ ISU
Following Saturday's races, Velzeboer leads the ISU Crystal Globe standings with 280 points. Choi is second with 274, while Santos-Griswold is third with 238. Canada leads the Team Crystal Globe standings with 2152 points, ahead of Korea (1818) and Netherlands (1521).
Racing continues on Sunday with the women’s 500 m, women’s 1500 m, men’s 1000 m, Mixed Team Relay and men’s 5000 m Relay at the Maurice Richard Arena.
About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union