Liu Shaoang (CHN)best summed up an extraordinary final day of ISU Short Track World Tour racing that had Beijing's Capital Indoor Stadium rocking from beginning to end.

“Everybody who watched the races, they can tell this is Short Track Speed Skating and it’s a really exciting sport,” said the hometown star, who started the action with gold in the mixed relay and finished it off with gold in the men’s 5000m relay.

“It was crazy in the mixed. We were first and then after we went second and then third and then back to second and then first.”

Liu Shaoang (CHN) reacts after the men's 5000m relay at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Beijing, China. © ISU

That level of excitement was replicated throughout. Just 24 hours after solidifying their position as the world No.1 and No.2, Canadian Ice MapleWilliam Dandjinouand Korean White TigerPark Jiwoncould only watch on as a host of new names, led byFelix Roussel (CAN), replaced them on the podium.

It was, as Liu said, “a great advert for the sport”.

Liu leads the way

Liu has been very open about the fact that his Chinese Loongs team did not start the inaugural World Tour in the manner they were hoping. Even after teammateSun Longshone on day one in Beijing, the host nation were down in fifth in the newly minted ISU team Crystal Globe rankings.

But that pair of relay wins on Sunday has transformed their outlook, shooting them up to fourth and within touching distance of the Dutch Lions in third and the Korean White Tigers in second.

Liu certainly played his part in the transformation. It was the two-time Olympic champion who emerged from a three-way tie on the final lap to grab a first mixed team relay gold of the season for the Loongs.

In the process, he broke a USA Eagle’s heart.

“That gold was there, I should have had it,” saidAndrew Heo, who had to settle for bronze after Liu and Korea’s Park shut him out.

Park knows how he feels. After losing out in that mixed relay and being penalised in the men’s 1000m, he fell in the final stages of the men’s 5000m relay final.

It was a race just as dramatic as the mixed relay. The Canadian Ice Maples, who won both World Tour golds in Montreal, fell relatively early, leaving the Tigers and Dutch Lions to fight it out with the Loongs. With eight laps to go, it looked like the Lions would roar loudest. But then they hit the ice too.

“The speed was so fast and things happened so fast, we tried to keep calm,” gold medallistLiu Shaolin (CHN)said. “I am so proud of the team.”

Racer Roussel prevails

With Liu Shaoang and first day hero Sun Long failing to get out of their semi-finals, there was to be no more home success in the 1000m. But that barely detracted from the excitement levels in the packed stadium.

For a long while it looked like business as usual with ISU Crystal Globe leader Dandjinou and his nearest challenger Park out in front. But then with just three laps to go, Park miscalculated, crossed over and wiped himself and the Canadian out.

“Sorry, sorry, sorry Dandjinou,” was all the defending Globe champion could say.

One person who was not sorry was Dandjinou’s fellow Ice Maple, Roussel. He stood tall just when he needed to.

“I just relied on my instinct, every time I saw an error I jumped,” he said.“I have always been a racer. If you speak to any of my teammates, they are going to tell you how bad I am in training. Honestly, I don’t really have the legs when it comes to training. But when it’s competition mode, something clicks and I have the legs, I have the IQ.”

Felix Roussel (CAN) competing in the men's 1000m at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating in Beijing, China. © ISU

Those qualities propelled him to a second world-level gold, with this one definitely his favourite.

“I won in the 500m falling over the line in Dresden (last season) so I really didn’t know if I had won,” Roussel said with a laugh.

Michal Niewinski (POL)underlined his status as one to watch by following the Ice Maple home, while the improvingNiall Treacygrabbed the British Royals men’s team their first medal in “for ever” with bronze.

“Another day, another medal, what can I say? I am getting used to this,” silver medallist Niewinski said, before explaining his recent rise. “I changed some positioning stuff and I also dropped some weight, which is really helpful in our sport.”

Dandjinou still the one to beat

All this combined to leave the Canadian Ice Maples still at the top in both the individual men’s and team Crystal Globe rankings, despite Dandjinou’s travails.

“Yeah a tough day,” he said. “I have to up my game again. Reset and then I will be there for next week for sure.”

Good news for fans, with the fourth leg of the ISU World Tour 2024/25 taking place in Seoul, Korea from 14-15 December.

ISU Individual men’s Crystal Globe standings:
1. William Dandjinou – 684 points
2. Park Jiwon – 446 points
3. Jens van ’t Wout – 386 points

ISU Team Crystal Globe standings:
1. Canadian Ice Maples – 4640 points2. Korean White Tigers – 3990 points3. Dutch Lions – 3149 points
About the ISU Short Track World Tour:Feel the Rush!
TheISUShort Track World Touris a global series of six elite Short Track ice skating events, spanning across North America, Asia and Europe. With a focus on engaging fans in a brand-new dynamic and entertaining event experience through vibrant competitions, theISU Short Track World Touraims to elevate the sport and bring its explosive excitement to a worldwide audience.
With each race, skaters aim for the ultimate prize — the Crystal Globe—awarded to the top male and female skater who accumulate the most points throughout the Short Track World Tour. This is where the world’s best Short Track skaters meet to thrill audiences andFeel the Rush!
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union