Arianna Fontana (ITA) first took the lead in the overall classification by winning the first final of the day, which saw two Italian skaters finish on the podium of the 1500 m final. Fontana, who was fifth with three laps to go, moved into the lead with a couple of exciting passes to the cheer of the home crowd. Her teammate Lucia Peretti (ITA) finished the race in third place. Splitting the two Italian skaters was Sofia Prosvirnova (RUS).
In the second ladies distance of the day, the 500 m, Rianne de Vries (NED) closed the gap to first place in the overall classification with a win. De Vries led the race from start to finish and took advantage of a fall from the championship leader Arianna Fontana (ITA). Despite the fall, Fontana earned eight valuable championship points, however her 42 points is only six points ahead of de Vries. The local crowd did have a reason to celebrate with a second-place finish by Martina Valcepina (ITA) in the 500 m, finishing ahead of Charlotte Gilmartin (GBR).
On the men’s side, only three points separate the top two: Semen Elistratov (RUS) with 39 points and Sjinkie Knegt (NED) with 36 points. Elistratov took the early lead in the overall classification by winning the men’s 1500 m final. He finished ahead of Shaoang Liu (HUN) and Vladislav Bykanov (ISR). In the race, Sjinkie Knegt, who is one of the favorites to take the overall title, received a penalty and only scored two points for the distance. However, Knegt regained himself by winning the 500 m final, the second distance of the day. The Dutch men took the top two spots in the race, with Dylan Hoogerwerf taking the second place in the event. Victor An (RUS) finished third earning some valuable championship points.
Arianna Fontana (ITA) heads into the last day of the championships ahead of Rianne de Vries (NED) in the overall classification. Sofia Prosvirnova (RUS) follows in third place with 26 points and two Italian skaters close behind: Martina Valcepina with 21 points and Lucia Peretti with 16 points. On the Men’s side, behind Elistratov (39 points) and Knegt (36 points) are: Dylan Hoogerwerf (NED) with 22 points, Shaoang Liu (HUN) with 21 points and Shaolin Sandor Liu (HUN) with 16 points. Racing resumes tomorrow with the Ladies and Men 1000 m, 3000 m Super Final and the Relay finals. Italy, Hungary, Netherlands and Czech Republic have qualified for the ladies relay final while Russia, Hungary, Netherlands and Italy have qualified for the men’s Relay final.
For full results of the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2017 please refer tothe event page.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union