

Dr. Jean Grenier
The ISU was saddened to learn of the passing of Dr. Jean Grenier, a trailblazing figure in the development of Speed Skating and Short Track in Canada and worldwide, on September 20, at the age of 88.
Born in Québec in 1937, Grenier was both a doctor and an administrator, whose passion for skating was first sparked by his children’s love of the sport. In 1969, he helped establish the Sainte-Foy Speed Skating Club, marking the beginning of a lifelong dedication to advancing ice sports in Canada.
In 1971, he became the founding president of the Québec Speed Skating Federation (FPVQ). His leadership quickly expanded to the national level, as he joined the Canadian Amateur Speed Skating Association as an executive member and later served as its president in 1976 and 1977.
Grenier’s influence soon reached the Olympic movement. Grenier became director of the Canadian Olympic Association in 1976, later serving as vice president (1981–1989, 1993), and secretary-treasurer (1989–1993). He played a pivotal role at the 1984 Sarajevo Olympic Winter Games as Deputy Chef de Mission, and at the 1988 Calgary Olympic Winter Games as Chef de Mission of the Canadian Olympic team. He also contributed to the Calgary Organising Committee as Canada hosted its first Winter Games.
At the international level, Grenier was a driving force within the International Skating Union (ISU). A passionate advocate for Short Track, he helped establish the ISU Short Track Technical Committee and was one of its first members. His relentless efforts were instrumental in the discipline gaining demonstration status at Calgary 1988. The discipline then officially became an Olympic sport at Albertville 1992. In recognition of his contributions, he was named an ISU Honorary Member in 1994.
Alongside his sporting achievements, Grenier practiced medicine for six years before earning an MBA and serving for a decade as director of the hospital in Laval, Québec. He went on to become Québec’s coroner-in-chief until 1992. Grenier also played a central role in Québec City’s bid for the 2002 Winter Olympics, serving as executive vice president of the “Québec 2002” project.
His remarkable career was recognized through numerous honors at the local, national, and international levels: he was inducted into the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame (1992), the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame (1995), the Québec Speed Skating Federation Hall of Fame (1997), and the Panthéon des sports du Québec (1998). The Jean Grenier Award for Volunteer of the Year in Canadian ice sport was established in his name in 1998. He also received the IOC’s Olympic Order (2009) and the Canadian Olympic Order (2010), two of the highest distinctions in international and national sport.
Grenier’s legacy also lived on through his family. He was the proud father of five children - Louis, André, François, Natalie, and Hélène - several of whom competed internationally for Canada in Short Track and Speed Skating, while two of them becoming Olympians.
A true pioneer, Dr. Jean Grenier was regarded as one of the fathers of Short Track Speed Skating at both the World and Olympic levels. He inspired and supported generations of athletes, helping to shape Olympic and World Champions, and leaves behind a profound legacy in Canadian and international sport.
The ISU extends its deepest sympathies to his family and loved ones.

Dr. Jean Grenier ©Quotidien Le Soleil Jean-Marie Villeneuve
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union