The Republic of Korea’s women continued their dominance at the Audi ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating with victory in the ladies relay 3000m final – the nation’s fourth gold medal of the weekend in four events
With three golds already in the bag, Choi Min Jeong (KOR) aimed for a fourth for the weekend, and led teammates Shim Suk Hee (KOR), Kim A Lang (KOR) and Kim Ye Jin (KOR) to victory in the concluding ladies final in Budapest.

Next year's Olympic Games hosts chased Canada for the first 13 laps and took a lead that they held for the remaining half of the race.
"It was a hard race because the Koreans showed good strength from the beginning," Kasandra Bradette (CAN) said.
Her team, with Valerie Maltais (CAN), Marianne St-Gelais CAN) and Jamie MacDonald (CAN), kept their second place and were happy with their silver medal.
"I think we showed what we can do and I still think that we can do better," Bradette said.
She said Canada had put a lot of focus on team spirit lately, playing 'escape' games and engaging in many other team-building activities off the ice to bring the group closer.
"We have such a team spirit that we've been working on throughout the summer and for the past three years," she said.
"Everything that we've done, individually or in the relay, I feel that we've done it all together as a team. We knew that we could count on each other whatever happened."
Russia got the bronze medal, keeping Japan behind them for the whole race.
"Every point is important because it's a qualification for the Olympic Games, so we didn't think about medals, we thought about step by step getting points and luckily we got a medal," Tatiana Borodulina (RUS) said.
"We were very happy because we felt that we could compete with Canada and maybe one day we'll be able to beat them.
"Before, we were just following them. Now we feel that we are very close."
Click here to see the full results.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union