#WorldShortTrack
On the eve of theCNSG 2025 ISU World Short Track Championships Beijing, fierce rivalsHanne Desmet(BEL) andKristen Santos-Griswold(USA, pictured) neatly summed up the sense of excitement engulfing Beijing’s famous Capital Indoor Stadium.
“There’s a big difference, you can feel it, if you win here, you’ll be able to call yourself a world champion,”Desmet, a three-time World Tour winner, said.“I want to prove to myself that I can do it.”
The Belgian, whose best finish was fifth in the 1000m at last year’s World Championships, is desperate to perform on the biggest stage this time around.

Kristen Santos-Griswold (USA) pips Hanne Desmet (BEL) to the line to win the 1500m final at the ISU Short Track World Tour in Seoul (KOR) in December 2024. © ISU
It is a feeling that Santos-Griswold knows so many gathered in Beijing share.
“People are really going to go for it and throw that pass at the end,”the recently crowned 2024/25 women’s ISU Crystal Globe champion said.“Everyone ultimately wants to be on the podium. It’s a big precursor to next year at the [Olympic] Games too.
“There’s so much at stake.”
‘One of the best places to race’
The pair, who are likely to go head-to-head for glory in the 1000m and 1500m, are in firm agreement on another subject too: there is nowhere better to host such a pivotal event.
“The venue is amazing, down to the locker rooms, the warm-up area, and especially the fans. It’s spectacular ice too. It’s grippy and strong at the same time, the perfect combination,”Santos-Griswold said.
Having pipped Santos-Griswold to Olympic bronze in the 1000m in 2022, it is perhaps no surprise that Desmet labels the Capital Indoor Stadium“one of the best places to race”. She is not the only one.
British skaterNiall Treacycompares it to skating in front of a “football crowd”, something Canada’sSteven Duboiscan relate to, even if he might be referring to a different type of football.

Niall Treacy (GBR) skates ahead of the 1500m pack at the Short Track World Tour in Montreal (CAN) in October 2024. © ISU
“I love it, especially when you get Chinese skaters in your races. It's so loud,” said Dubois, who grabbed gold, silver and bronze at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Games.
“It's really fun. They're big fans of the sport.”
‘I'm the most prepared I've ever been for this ice’
Despite his past success, Dubois has been working super-hard on ensuring that he finally feels comfortable on the notoriously fast Beijing ice.
“Because the ice holds so much, you have to lean super hard,”the Canadian, who is yet to win an individual world title, explained.
“I have always struggled with being scared in the corners, with the leaning and everything. But I've had a lot of preparation with knowing how the ice is going to be and how I want to skate, and technically, and my blades and everything. I think now I'm the most prepared I've ever been for this ice.”

Canadian teammates Steven Dubois (left) and Willian Dandjinou (right) celebrate their 1-2 in the 500m Short Track World Tour final in Montreal (CAN) in November 2024.  © ISU
TeammateWilliam Dandjinou(CAN) needs no warning that Dubois will be a danger in just about every discipline. The reigning men’s ISU Crystal Globe winner has always felt at home in Beijing, even if, in what seems like a quirk of fate, he has yet to win a major individual race in China’s capital.
“I love the ice here, for my profile, a little bit heavier, a little bit bigger guy, the ice is really good quality, but unfortunately, I haven’t had the results I want yet,”Dandjinou said, before adding simply:“I hope this time I do it well.”
‘I'm really looking forward to competing here’
Arianna Fontana(ITA) is another huge name targeting improvements in Beijing. Back in December 2024, the pioneering Italian arrived at the Capital Indoor Stadium still attempting to figure out how best to balance her goal of going for medals in both Short Track and Speed Skating at next year’s Olympic Games.

Arianna Fontana (ITA) on home ice at the Short Track World Tour in Milan in February 2025. © ISU
“This season most of it has been about trying to figure out how to manage both disciplines, training and racing,”said Fontana.
“And I think we did a pretty good job in the second part of the season after the World Cup here [in which she struggled with injury]. We noticed we needed to add more training, unfortunately for me, between races.”
The athlete, who already boasts 11 Olympic medals, added:“So, I'm really looking forward to competing here to see where I'm at and understand if the work that we've done is good.”
‘We know we need to be good at this moment’
The final pre-Championship word goes to one of those tasked with ensuring skaters can perform their best, despite the magnitude of the event.
“It’s the last one that can prepare us for the [Olympic] Games in terms of needing to be good in the moment,”Marc Gagnon, Canada’s head coach and a 14-time former world champion, said.

Canada head coach and 14-time World Champion Marc Gagnon looks on during the Short Track World Tour in Seoul (KOR), December 2024. © ISU
“We say it, we name it, we know that we need to be good at this very moment. The same way we will have to be good in a year from now. But what do we do to be good at that very moment? That's what we're focusing on.”
Where to watch
Viewers will be able to watch the CNSG ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships via their national broadcaster/channel.
For countries where there are no broadcasters and for the qualification and repechage races, the ISU will offer a live stream on theSkating ISU YouTube Channel. You will find the full list on theWhere to watch webpage.
Subscribe to the ISU YouTube Channel to receive all the latest videos and follow the conversation with#WorldShortTrack.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union