24 countries entered for this sixth and final round, with the team from Canada earning the most medals this weekend with a total of seven medals. Korea and the United States each earned six and five medals respectively, while both China and the Netherlands earned four medals. The other countries to earn medals were: Italy (two), Japan (one) and Russia (one).
During the weekend, the skaters competed over the 1000m distance twice along with the usual other distances. In the first Ladies 1000m Final, Marianne St-Gelais from Canada won the event, finishing ahead of Jorien Ter Mors from the Netherlands. Third place finisher was Qiuhong Liu from China. In the second Ladies 1000m Final, Lana Gehring (USA) took the win, ahead of Marie-Eve Drolet from Canada. Third place went to Jianrou Li from China. Yui Sakai from Japan ends the season on top of the World Cup Rankings for the distance.
On the men's side, the first 1000m Final was a treat for the local fans, as three Dutch skaters were in the mix for the win. However, it was Guillaume Bastille from Canada who took the win. Nonetheless, skaters from the Netherlands finished second and third respectively: Sjinkie Knegt ahead of Freek Van Der Wart. The second 1000m final was won by Jinkyu Noh from Korea, who edged out Olivier Jean from Canada. Third place finisher was American skater J.R. Celski. Yoon-Gy Kwak ends the season on top of the World Cup ranking for the distance.
In the Ladies 1500m, American skater Lana Gehring won her second event of the weekend, ahead of Ha-Ri Cho from Korea. This second place allows Cho to clinch the overall World Cup distance classification. Kexin Fan of China finished third. In the Men's 1500m event, the final was won by Jinkyu Noh from Korea, who with his sixth win of the season in this distance, ends up at the top of the 1500m World Cup classification. His teammate Da Woon Sin finished second, while Semen Elistratov from Russia was third.
The Ladies 500m final was won by Italian skater Arianna Fontana, who finished ahead of St-Gelais. Fontana's teammate, Martina Valcepina, finished third. On the men' side, the 500m final was won by Simon Cho from the United States. Yoon-Gy Kwak from Korea was second, and Francois-Louis Tremblay from Canada was third. The season ends with the following skaters on top of the World Cup ranking for this distance: Fontana (Ladies), and Olivier Jean of Canada (Men).
The competition ended with the relay events, and it was not a surprise to see China taking their fifth win of the season in the Ladies Relay. The United States finished second, while Japan was third. In the Men's 5000m Relay event, the home team gave the fans something to cheer about, with the Netherlands taking the win on home ice. They finished ahead of Canada (second) and Korea (third). The World Cup distance winners for the season were China (Ladies) and Canada (Men).
While this event brings to a conclusion the Korean Air ISU World Cup Short Track circuit, the world's best short track skaters will meet up in early march, for the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2012 in Shanghai, China, on March 9-11. In the meantime, the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships will be in Melbourne, Australia on February 24-26, 2012.
Results
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union