22 countries were in attendance, with Korea taking the most medals, with a total of 14. This was a dominant weekend for Korea. China earned five medals, while the following countries each earned two medals: Canada, Great Britain, Netherlands and the United States. Germany, Japan and Russia each earned one medal.
During the weekend, the skaters competed over the 1500m distance twice along with the usual other distances. In the first of Ladies 1500m, Korean skaters completed a podium sweep, with Suk Hee Shim finishing ahead of teammate Seung-Hi Park, while Ha-Ri Cho was third. In the second 1500m event, Soyoun Lee of Korea took the win, ahead of Elise Christie of Great Britain. Xue Kong of China finished third. The win by Shim allows her to maintain her lead in the World Cup distance classification.
The Korean skaters continued to dominate the 1500m distance, by taking the win in both Men's events. In the first event, Byeong-Jun Kim took the win ahead of teammate Da Woon Sin. Charles Hamelin of Canada was third. In the second 1500m event, Jinkyu Noh completed the race ahead of teammate Da Woon Sin; Dutch skater Sjinkie Knegt was third. Noh's win allows him to further increase his lead in the World Cup men's classification for the distance.
In the Ladies 500m event, Meng Wang (China) won her third final of the season in this distance, allowing her to maintain her lead in the 500m World Cup classification. Her teammate Qiuhong Liu was second while Suk Hee Shim was third.  On the men'side, Germany earned its first medal of the season with Robert Siefert's win. Canada's Charles Hamelin was second, which is good enough to keep him on top of the World Cup ranking for the distance. Travis Jayner of the United States finished in third place.
The Ladies 1000m final was won by Elise Christie (GBR), who finished ahead of two Korean skaters: Min-Jung Kim (second) and Soyoun Lee (third). Christie remains in the lead of the lead of the World Cup ranking for the distance. On the men's side, Victor An (RUS) finished first, ahead of J.R. Celski (USA). Jinkyu Noh was third. The win allows An to take the lead from Yoon-Gy Kwak in the 1000m World Cup ranking.
The races concluded on Sunday with the Ladies and Men's relay events. In the Ladies 3000m relay, China finished ahead of Korea, while Japan finished in third place. In the Men's 5000m relay event, Korea maintained its perfect record by winning the third relay final of the season. The Netherlands had a strong showing, finishing in second, ahead of China. After three events, the World Cup leaders remain unchanged, with China (Ladies) and Korea (Men) continuing to be the leaders.
The Samsung ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating series moves to Shanghai, China next weekend (December 7-9, 2012).
Results

Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union