The dedicated helmet numbers will be used at the 2018 Olympic Winter Games and at all ISU Events (ISU Championships and ISU World Cup Short Track Competitions), except for the ISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships where helmet covers will be provided.
These dedicated helmet numbers are assigned based on the overall results of the 2017 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships, starting with number 1 (one) for the World Short Track Speed Skating Champions Ladies and Men, and continuing with progressive numbering until the last listed Skater.
For all Skaters that did not participate in the individual races of the 2017 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships, the 1000m overall World Cup Classification of the 2016/17 ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating has been taken into account.
Skaters who did not participate in any ISU World Cup Short Track Competition 2016/17 and/or in the 2017 ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships will receive the next available number, after the helmet numbers already assigned, the first time they will participate in an ISU Event during the season 2017/18, and such a skater will keep this assigned helmet number for the rest of the season.
The black numbers on white surface will be glued as oval stickers of the size of 8 x 14cm (height and length) on the left-hand and right-hand side of the personal helmets and shall not be removed during the whole season. The ISU does not accept responsibility for damages to the design/artwork on the helmet incurred when applying these numbers
These numbers (stickers) will be provided by the ISU based on the below list at the first ISU Event of the season. For those Skaters not attending the first ISU Event, the number (sticker) will be distributed at the first Event of the season when the Skater is attending.
List of assigned dedicated Helmet numbers for the season 2017/18 are available in this Communication.
To read full ISU Communication 2088 please click on the link on the right.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union