The ISU launches a Short Track Speed Skating Campaign to bring athletes and fans together through a unique gesture that captures the essence of the sport.

Short Track Speed Skating is about summoning precision, control and strength to reach the highest speeds. The most crucial and defining seconds occur as they reach the track’s sharp turns – turns that are taken on a blade’s edge. Those are the sport’s make-or-break moments. Aside from the 1mm of metal upon which the athletes rely to stay grounded at speeds touching 50 km/h, it’s their one hand down that connects them to the ice. In that instant, it’s all that matters. This simple movement provides them with the stability, strength and confidence needed to push boundaries and reach lightning-fast velocity.

Charles Hamelin (CAN) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
It’s not just a movement, it’s a value that transcends language – one that all Short Track athletes understand. It reflects their connection with their environment and the touch that makes the crucial difference to performance. When the skaters meet on the ice, no matter which part of the world they’re from, one thing unites them – they keep #OneHandDown.
The Short Track community is as diverse as it is competitive. Yet, it is united through passion and a love of this unique sport. This season, the ISU invites the fans to immerse themselves into the spirit of the sport with the #OneHandDown campaign, which will bring fans closer than ever to the sport and its athletes.

Elise Christie (GBR) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
We want fans to really feel the speed of Short Track. Live streams are planned for each of the five World Cup stops, the ISU European Short Track Speed Skating Championships and the season finale – the ISU World Short Track Speed Skating Championships.
Fans will be brought closer to the inner-workings, tactics, endurance, emotion and excitement of Short Track Speed Skating, thanks to broadcast-quality video and in-depth interviews. Much more about this season’s competitors and their careers will be revealed over the next six months.

Vladislav Bykanov (ISR) 2018©International Skating Union (ISU)
As we accelerate towards the first leg of the ISU World Cup Short Track in Calgary, Canada, now is the perfect time to join the ISU Short Track community online and be part of the conversation. It’s a Short Track season full of promise. Stay tuned onwww.ISU.org/short-trackand our dedicated social media channels for all the schedules, results and other exclusive content.

#OneHandDown Campaign©International Skating Union (ISU)
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union