
#ShortTrackSkating

Florence Brunelle (CAN), Kim Gilli (KOR) and Oh Songmi (KOR) pose ISU World Junior Short track Championships in Dresden (GER) @ISU
The rise and rise ofFlorence Brunelle(CAN) andKim Gilli(KOR) and Oh Songmi (KOR) continued apace in Dresden, Germany this weekend at theISU World Junior Short Track Speed Skating Championships.
The duo dominated the women’s events at the JOYNEXT Arena, while a brilliant group of men from the Republic of Korea showed that the future is bright for the sport’s dominant nation.
Kim, 18, is already starring on the senior circuit this season. She picked up her first ISU World Cup individual gold in Salt Lake City and has been a key member of Korea’s elite mixed and women’s Relay teams.

Kim Gilli (KOR) celebrates  during the ISU World Junior Short track Championships in Dresden (GER) @ISU
Showing off her brilliant technique and scorching pace over the final laps, Kim took 1500m gold, ahead of Brunelle, who was second, and Oh Songmi (KOR) in third.
Brunelle, who is also starring at senior level, struck back in the 500m. A pure speed merchant, she is seen by many in Canadian Short Track as the heir apparent to one of its finest skaters,Kim Boutin(CAN), and did nothing to dispel the comparisons here.

Florence Brunelle (CAN) competes during the ISU World Junior Short track Championships in Dresden (GER) @ISU
Brunelle was lightning-fast, finishing ahead of compatriotAnn-Sophie Bachand, and China’s Song Jiarui.
The 1000m on Sunday was a photocopy of the 1500m: Kim had too much endurance and racecraft for the field, finishing narrowly ahead of Brunelle and Oh. All three will be racers to watch in the future, as well as the present.
New generation of Korean men look to step up
While not quite as established as Kim or Brunelle,Michal Niewinski(POL) has started to make a mark on the senior circuit, too, picking up a 2000m mixed Relay bronze this season.

Michal Niewinski (POL) celebrates during the ISU World Junior Short track Championships in Dresden (GER) @ISU
The powerful Pole was too good for the competition in Dresden, showing excellent finishing speed to take 500m gold, ahead ofMarcus Howard(USA) who was second with a strong showing.Li Kun(CHN) grabbed bronze.

Marcus Howard, Michal Niewinski (POL) and Li Kun ((CHN) celebrate during the ISU World Junior Short track Championships in Dresden (GER) @ISU
The weekend was otherwise dominated by Korea, however. Its men have dominated the sport over recent years, and three new skaters from the Short Track powerhouse put their names on the map in Germany.
Lee Donghyun (KOR) won the 1500m, performing brilliantly to jostle ahead of his teammates Shin Dong Min and Lee Dongmin.

Lee Donghyun (KOR) celebrates during the ISU World Junior Short track Championships in Dresden (GER) @ISU
In the 1000m on Sunday, Lee Donghyun again prevailed, with Shin taking silver and Niewinski bronze.
With Kim and Lee the key skaters of the weekend, it was no surprise that they won both 3000m Relays, too. Korea’s women finished well ahead of China, second, and Hungary, third. The men defeated Japan, who got silver, and USA, who took bronze.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union