

#ShortTrackWorldTour
It’s dynamic, bold and explosive: the brand-newISU Short Track World Tourlaunches on Friday, October  25thin Montreal (CAN) – the first of a fresh Series of events showcasing one of the world’s most intense and entertaining sport on ice. Here is an overview of the main innovations to watch out for as we embark on the new Tour!

The ISU Short Track World Tour is designed to bring world-class skaters and thrilling competitions to a worldwide audience. This is a full makeover for Short Track, with avibrant new branding and entertainment approachthat will lead to anenhanced fan experience– both for those at the venues, and for supporters watching via the ISU’s revamped TV presentation.



Among the innovations are powerfulnew Teams’ identitiesintroducing entirely re-designed racing suits with different colors and mascots – encapsulating national symbols and the competitive spirit of each participating team. The Canadian Ice Maples, USA Eagles, Chinese Loongs, Korean White Tigers, Dutch Lions or Italian Gladiators are for example the host nations’ distinctive identities (discover all Team identitieshere). This will boost team spirit, pride and competitiveness among the skaters, and maximize engagement, loyalty and recognition for their fans.

From Left to right: Nakashima Mirei (Japanese Ninja), Quentin Fercoq (French Rooster), Xandra Velzeboer (Dutch Lions), Jordan Pierre-Gilles (Canadian Maples), Hanne Desmet  (Belgian Ice Bear),Pietro Sighel  (Italian Gladiators), Eirik Andersen (Norwegian Vikings)  © CHRISTIAN MARTIN

ISU President, Jae Youl Kim, summarizes the ISU’s vision behind this groundbreaking change:
“Short Track is a fast, dynamic, and action-packed sport that keeps spectators on the edge of their seats. As a relatively young sport with immense potential, we aim to fully capitalize on its growth in line with ourVision 2030. Our first step is to launch the Short Track World Tour, which will enhance fan engagement through unique team identities and more exciting content on and off the ice.”

For those viewing the competitions on screens, the coverage will be massively upgraded. With strong graphics and storytelling, it will take fans behind the scenes and inside the action. On-site, the rinks are set up to convey the exhilaration of this passionate sport:lively venue dressingwill be combined with animmersive and entertaining event experience,including DJs, live bands, and light shows. Spectators will more than ever “feel the rush” of the intense rivalries and the skaters’ unpredictable moves on ice.

Reigning Crystal Globe Trophy championsKim GilliandPark Ji Wonfrom the Team “Korean White Tigers” are back this season to defend their titles. The prestigiousISU Crystal Globewill once again be awarded to the two top-ranked male and female skaters, determined by their total points across all ISU Short Track World Tour events. New this season is theISU Team Crystal Globe Trophy, which will be presented to the Team that accumulates the highest points throughout the World Tour.

All in all, the ISU Short Track World Tour promises to bring the audience closer to the thrilling essence of the sport with a forward-looking approach on an engaging and interactive experience.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union