
At 31 and with eight Olympic medals to her name already, Italian Short Track Speed Skating starArianna Fontanacould be excused for starting to slow down.
According to Fontana, however, the opposite is true.
“I’m getting older but I’m getting faster and it’s exciting for me to still be here and compete at a high level,” Fontana said as she prepares for her fifth Olympic Winter Games at Beijing 2022.

Arianna Fontana (ITA) at the ISU World Cup Short Track in Dordrecht, 2021 © International Skating Union (ISU)
Fontana shares the record for most Olympic medals among Short Track skaters withApolo Anton Ohno(USA) andVictor An(KOR/RUS). Winning the one medal she needs to claim the outright lead, however, will be more difficult than it has ever been as the sport’s standards continue to rise.
“Maybe in the past there were four or five (top) girls in each distance, but now you get to a quarterfinal and it’s already tough,” said Fontana, who is also two winter Olympic medals short of cross-country skier Stefania Belmondo’s Italian women’s record of 10.
"You can’t take it easy,” Fontana said. “From the first race you need to get on the ice and you know that you need to work. It’s not that you get on the ice and you get to just chill.”
A post shared by ISU Speed Skating (@isuspeedskating)
Far from shying away from the increased competition, however, Fontana is embracing it: “I like it better this way,” she said. “It’s never lazy, it’s always exciting.”
Much of the pre-Olympic favoritism has focused on 2021 World ChampionSuzanne Schulting(NED), reminding Fontana of competing against four-time Olympic gold medalistWang Meng(CHN) earlier in her career.
“For me, she (Wang) was the one to beat so I always trained hard to get close enough to be with her and then hopefully one day beat her,” Fontana said.
“For me it was like, if she can go that fast and she can be so strong, I can be that strong too. It was more motivation than demotivation.”
Now it’s Schulting, who has won eight of the past 15 individual races at World Cup and World Championship level, who provides Fontana with that motivation.
“When she’s on the ice, she’s always focused and she’s already ready to go,” Fontana said of her Dutch rival.
Despite the hype surrounding Schulting, Fontana will enter the Olympic Games as one of the favorites in the 500m after making the podium in that distance at all four 2021/22 World Cup events, including winning the season’s second competition in Nagoya.

Arianna Fontana (ITA) at the ISU World Cup Short Track in Debrecen, 2021 © International Skating Union (ISU)
“I’m happy with the way it’s been going, I’m really happy with the training that I did, with the competitions that I did,” Fontana said of her World Cup campaign.
“Always being in the finals, always fighting against the best skaters, it’s good. It was good practice for the Olympics.”
If there’s anything that Fontana has learned from her Olympic career, which includes being the youngest Italian to win an Olympic Winter Games medal at 15 in 2006, and the first Italian woman to win an individual Short Track medal in 2010, it’s to be prepared for anything in Beijing.
“The Olympics are always ... something always happens, ” she said. “We’ll see once we get there what’s going to happen.”
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union