Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union
24 countries were in attendance, with Korea once again taking the most medals, with a total of 14. This was a dominant weekend for Korea. China earned five medals, while the following countries each earned two medals: Canada, Great Britain, Netherlands and the United States. Germany, Japan and Russia each earned one medal.
During the weekend, the skaters competed over the 1000m distance twice along with the usual other distances. In the first Ladies 1000m final, Seung Hi Park (KOR) took the win ahead Meng Wang (CHN). Elise Christie (GBR) finished third. In the second Ladies 1000m final, Suk Hee Shim (KOR) was the winner, ahead of Jianrou Li (CHN); Min-Jung Kim (KOR) was third. Christie remains in the lead of the lead of the World Cup ranking for the distance.
On the men's side, the Korean domination in this distance continued, with Yoon-Gy Kwak winning both 1000m finals. In the first event, the podium was completed by Wenhao Liang (CHN) (second place) and Niels Kersholt (NED) in third place. In the second event, Victor An (RUS) was second, and Jinkyu Noh (KOR) was third. The double win allows Kwak to take the lead back in the 1000m World Cup ranking.
In the Ladies' 1500m, Suk Hee Shim finished first, taking her fourth win of the season. Jianrou Li (CHN) was second, while Ha-Ri Cho (KOR) was third. The win solidifies Shim's lead in the World Cup ranking for the distance. In the men's event, the winner was Victor An, who finished ahead of World Cup distance leader Jinkyu Noh. Guillaume Bastille (CAN) was third.
In the Ladies' 500m event, Meng Wang continued her domination in this distance, taking her fourth win of the season. Kexin Fan (CHN) was second, and Marianne St-Gelais (CAN) was third. On the men'side, Charles Hamelin (CAN) finished ahead of Russia's Vladimir Grigorev; Dajing Wu (CHN) was third. Both Wang and Hamelin remain on top of the World Cup ranking for the distance.
The races concluded on Sunday with the ladies and men's relay events. In the Ladies' 3000m relay, China finished ahead of Japan, while Italy finished in third place. In the Men's 5000m relay event, Korea added to its perfect record this season by winning the fourth relay final of the season. The Netherlands finished second, ahead of Canada. After four events, the World Cup leaders remain unchanged, with China (ladies) and Korea (men) continuing to be the leaders.
The Samsung ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating series takes a break for the holiday season, and resumes in the New Year in Sochi, Russia on February 1-3, 2013.
Results
Skating updates delivered to your inbox