Rules of Short Track Speed Skating - Beijing 2022

Athletes compete during a Short Track Speed Skating test event for the 2022 Beijing Olympic Winter Games at the Capital Indoor Stadium in Beijing (CHN) @Noel Celis/AFP
Short Track Speed Skating will be one of the most thrilling, high-octane sports on the program at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games.
With athletes racing against each other around a tight 111.12m track, non-stop action is guaranteed at Beijing’s Capital Indoor Stadium from 5-16 February.

With athletes racing against each other around a tight 111.12m track, non-stop action is guaranteed at Beijing’s Capital Indoor Stadium from 5-16 February.
Competition formats
There will be nine Olympic Short Track gold medals on offer during the 12 days of competition in Beijing.
Individual men’s and women’s titles are up for grabs over three distances: the 500m, 1000m and 1500m. There will be 32 men and 32 women lining up in the 500m and 1000m, with this increased to 36 skaters for the 1500m.
There is a maximum of three skaters per National Olympic Committee (NOC) in each individual event.

Elise Christie (GBR) and Ami Hirai (JPN) compete in the Women's 1500m Ranking Finals during the 2021/22 ISU World Cup Short Track test event for the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games in Beijing (CHN) @International Skating Union (ISU)
Things are slightly different in the relays, one of the most exciting formats in winter sport. Eight teams, each comprising four skaters, will race in the men’s 5000m and women’s 3000m relays.
Every relay race is scheduled to feature four teams, meaning 16 skaters will be on the ice at the same time. In addition, the mixed team relay will make its debut at these Olympic Games. The format, which first featured on the World Cup circuit during the 2018/19 season, involves teams comprising two men and two women racing over 2000m. Each athlete skates twice following the order: woman-woman-man-man-woman-woman-man-man. Each qualified NOC can enter just one team per relay.

Athletes skate during the Mixed Gender Relay of 200 meter during the 2018 ISU Short Track World Cup at Halyk Arena in Almaty (KZN)@International Skating Union (ISU)
Canada, China, Italy, the Republic of Korea and the Netherlands are the only nations to have qualified the maximum 10 skaters – five men and five women – across the nine events. In total, 23 NOCs will be represented in Short Track Speed Skating at Beijing 2022.
All qualification spots were determined in the 2021/22 ISU Short Track Speed Skating World Cup season, which concluded in Dordrecht, the Netherlands in November 2021.

Race rules
Typically, there will be four skaters or teams in each race. The top two skaters from each heat will advance to the next round with the action culminating in an A final, in which the medals will be decided, and a B final where places 5-8 will be determined.
All times are recorded to one-thousandth of a second. If any skaters or teams are tied in a race they will all receive the same rank.

Ziwei Ren (CHN) and Hyojun Lim (KOR) lead their Men's 500m Short Track Speed Skating Semi Final during the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter in Gangneung (KOR) @Maddie Meyer
There are some circumstances in which more than two athletes or teams can advance to the next round. This could happen if the referee decides there has been severe contact, or an infringement, that leads to a penalty.
Athletes can breach the racing rules by skating off the track, impeding, blocking, charging or pushing another skater, or kicking out their skates. Racers are also forbidden from assisting each other – aside from the push in the relay – or throwing their bodies across the finishing line. If a referee determines that the rules have been broken, he or she can advance a skater or team who did not finish in the top two as a result of an unfair disadvantage caused by another skater or team.

Elise Christie (GBR) receives a second penalty and is disqualified for pushing Magdalena Warakomska (POL) while Lara Van Ruijven (NED), Andrea Keszler (HUN) continue their race during the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games in Gangneung (KOR) @Jean Catuffe
Any skater or team that receives a penalty will be disqualified from that race. If the referee rules that the infringement was unsafe, harmful or hazardous, a yellow card can be issued. Two yellow cards equal a red, which would exclude a skater from the rest of the Games. Any infringement that is deemed to be dangerous, grossly negligent or a violation of the ISU Code of Ethics will result in a straight red card.
There is no system of protest against these racing rules in Short Track Speed Skating.
Finally, one false start is permitted per race but a second false start will see that racer excluded.
Skating updates delivered to your inbox
Scan to Download the APP
2025© All rights reserved. International Skating Union